Videoconference 2019-06-13
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Anders Petterson
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Frank Wutzler


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Opening
-------
Discussion of the agenda.


Agenda
------
1) JSON form for modules and accessibles list
2) remove combinatoric busy status values telling "may accept commands"
3) slowly changing parameters
4) depending on the decision from (2): further reduction of the number of status values


1) JSON form for modules and accessibles list
---------------------------------------------
Discussion about the need for changing the formatting again.
Agreement on trying to get a final version.
Discussion about using a JSON library that keeps the order vs. structuring te data
in an order-keeping way.

Decision is to change 'list of (key, value) pairs' back to JSON-object.
Also, it should be noted in the specification, that the order of {} entries
should be kept, i.e. SECoP uses a restricted version of JSON.
In addition, the formatting of datatypes is to change from a 2 element list to a JSON-object with a single entry.
(essentially converting ["type",{...}] to {"type":{...}} )


2) remove combinatoric busy status values telling "may accept commands"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Enrico though that a Module would only ever use one of a pair (code, code+10).
Unfortunately, this is not always true.
Enrico and Markus think that the +10 is not essential and may be omitted.
After a short discussion, it turns out that this information is not really needed,
as any ECS needs to handle possible errors anyway.

Agreement on leaving out the '+10' extra codes.

A lengthy discussion is digressed by topic: generic reordering of the status codes.
The discussion gets more complicated by discussing usages and scenarios for different codes.

Klaus proposal:
  * 100..199 Idle
  * 200..249 Warn not measure
  * 250..299 Warn measure
  * 300..349 Busy not measure
  * 350..399 Busy measure
  * 400..999 Error


3) slowly changing parameters
-----------------------------
Only acceptable case is the `mode`.
lengthy discussion about `mode` and `set_mode`. Markus will write a proposal.


4) depending on the decision from (3): further reduction of the number of status values
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
postponed to be discussed after the above is decided.


Next meeting
------------
2019-07-09 13:00
