Videoconference 2019-05-08
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Frank Wutzler
     * Georg Brandl

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Opening
-------
discussion of agenda


jump start without agenda


Discussion of (sub)states
-------------------------

Markus wants to focus on use cases, but also wants to finish the topic.
It seems a waste of time to signal BUSY while a cryomagnet is ramping down.

Klaus thinks we have to distinguish four things:

1) "Handshake" for action idle -> busy -> idle
2) Flow-control for measurement: preparing -> moving -> finalizing
3) at target
4) Availability: "don't bother me now..."
5) Disable module

Discussion.

It seems worth to define the distinct meanings which should be transported.
 * an action is going on
 * value != target
 * value is approaching the target
 * ...

Then define how this is transferred is another topic.

Markus has another proposal:
give commands a doing and a done reply to signal the end of an action.

Another idea is to encode 'bitfields' in the so far unused digits of the status code.

Further discussion is postponed to face2face meeting.


Philosophy
----------

Markus discusses the question:

  if you have a 'parameter' which can change over time, so it has a 'target' and a 'current value'.
  shouldn't this be a module of its own?

Further discussion is postponed to face2face meeting.

Everybody should collect his version of the secop rules and circulate before the next meeting.


Last check of the syntax definition
-----------------------------------

to be rechecked by everybody for the last time, as this is going to be finalized.


Next meeting
------------
face 2 face meeting @MLZ in Garching 2ß19-05-20 to 2019-05-21
