2-days meeting 2022-01-25 - 2022-01-26 (ZOOM)
=============================================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Niklas Eckström
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Anders Pettersson


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Agenda
------
Day one.

- discussion about how to proceed with the upcoming meetings/presentations
  (minutes by markus zolliker)
- Issue 71: accessing sub items of parameters
- Interface classes ?
- Issue 65: handling of coupled (sub)modules


2022-01-25
----------

Extended SECoP video meeting 15 February 2022 12:00
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Klaus explains the motivation for this meeting. In February the are a couple of kick-off
meetings for the newly created ISSE committees. The SECoP meeting is not really kick-off,
just a SECoP meeting with ideally the contacts from all the institutes.

We decided the following agenda:

1) Presentation from the SECoP committee (not more than 15 min).

   a) State of SECoP protocol refinement. Message: the committee is discussing
      the things we need for defining more detailed Interface classes.

   b) Status of Software (Frappy, Octopy, SHALL. 1-2 slides each)
      Message: which package for which use case, all are welcome to participate

   c) Klaus: ideas behind SECoP@HMC, focus on impact on SECoP

2) Collect status from all institutions:

   a) projects, where SECoP is intended to be implemented

   b) what are the missing things needed?

3) Frequency of such meetings / how to improve information about SECoP


Markus will compile the full presentation in one document, for saving the time
to change screen sharing. The slides for Octopy (Niklas), SHALL (Lutz) and
SECoP@HMC (Klaus) must be sent to Markus at the lastest 14 February 12:00.


Issue 71: accessing sub items of parameters
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Markus doesn't want to do any implementation until a use case shows up.
The additional complications can be handled by using structs with optional components on the SEC-Node,
or by manipulating the sub-elements on the ECS.

Issue is to be closed (rejected), can be re-opened if use-cases arise.


Interface Classes
+++++++++++++++++
First discussion in Issue 18, one existing proposal is in Issue 27.
Bastian will circulate another proposal this evening.
Lets re-think both and discuss tomorrow.


Issue 65: handling of coupled (sub)modules
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
As there was no final decision last time, the issue should be updated from the minutes
(and possible also the wip draft spec).

Mode switching is done by setting a new target on the ``controlling`` module.
Issue needs to be rewritten to reflect currently discussed state.


Issue 69: optional structs by default
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Enno favours the proposed change (all struct members should be optional if the property
``optional`` is *not* given. To indicate that all members are mandatory, ``optional``
should be set to the empty array (``[]``).

Markus raises discussions about the semantics (reading/changing a struct-valued parameter),
what about command arguments/results.

We stick to the SECoP rule that reading a parameter (or sending updates on one)
gives the ``full`` value, iven if the value is a struct with optional elements.

Klaus emphasises that a 'simple' SEC-Node, unable to handle optional structs
would neet to declare all structs with ``optional=[]``.
All agree on this. This information should be emphasised in the spec.

2022-01-25
----------

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Niklas Eckström
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Anders Pettersson

Discussion jump starts with 'how to export different `views` of a SEC-Node'.
No conclusion (yet).

Issue 65:handling of coupled (sub)modules
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
After a short discussion the proposed issues is agreed upon:
Modules which can be controlled get an (readonly) enum parameter ``controlled_by``
listing 'self' and all possible controllers und the value reflects,
which module is in charge of controlling this module.
Control is transferred if a new target is set (or the go command issued).
(i.e. if a module X is controlled by a module Y, setting X.target will break that relationship).

Agreement on this - Markus is updating the issue....

Issue 69: optional structs by default
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Klaus points out that the proposal violates the must-ignore policy.
(redefining omitting the 'optional' datainfo property used to mean,
all members are mandatory).
After a longer discussion, ('better be explicit'), naming all members in case
all are optional doesn't seem to be a major problem.

Finally we define 'optional=True' for the case that all parameters are optional.
Issue can be closed.

Agreement on this - Markus is updating the issue....

Proposal of a SEC-node of an orange cryostat
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
``controlled_by`` should not be used to build circles.
Having a temperature controller whose power output is a distinct module, that
should be able to indicate pid-control/power control mode by its ``controlled_by`` parameter.
The controller, however, is not controlled by the power output.

A longer discussion follows.
Klaus wants to indicate that the value of a module somehow is not influenced by
its own logic, but by the 'logic' of some other module.

After a longer discussion and few helpful examples, an additional
``active`` (Bool) parameter (for Drivables) is discussed. If this is False,
the Module acts like a Readable, otherwise it fulfils its normal function.
Setting a new target would then also set ``active`` back to True.
Also, a much better description of the ``controlled_by`` is needed.

Klaus obviously wants something else, a discussion about what this is follows.

After a heated discussion, Anders proposes to restart by focusing on the question:
'what do we want'.

We want to communicate that for a bunch of modules potentially controlling another module,
which one was set last (and is thus 'active') and which one is just 'passively' updating its
value parameter and not 'actively doing anything'.
Since the relationship is usually in the form of many potentially 'controllers' to one 'acting'
module, it seems naturally to store this information on the acting module
(I'm acting on the behalf of ...).
Also the information which modules are potentially controlling a module, is desired,
it also seemed naturally to use an enum listing the possible values.

Open questions:
- What about the startup condition (no target changes were made already).
- Is that information needed also on the potential 'controllers'
- is controller a classical controller (see wikipedia), using 1-N Actuators to
  manipulate 1-M sensed values towards a goal, or just the last Drivable written to?
- Why isn't the information, that a module is not actively working to reach its target,
  but instead just reports the (sensed) value(s), not sufficient?

next meeting
++++++++++++
2022-02-28 10:00-12:00 and 2022-03-02 10:00-12:00.

Session closed.
