meeting 2022-11-30 (ZOOM)
=========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Niklas Eckström
     * Georg Brandl
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Enrico Faulhaber

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 3


Agenda
------
Agenda:

1) approval of the minutes from 14th November

2) refinement of specs (please read carefully):

  a) add note about datainfo min/max
  b) target_limits
  c) HasOffset
  d) controlled_by

  see protocol/secop_specification_draft_wip.rst


3) best practice examples:

   a) Ennos templates

   b) Cryomagnet example:

      https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/protocol/examples/cryomagnet_draft.rst


4) various

5) next meeting

1) approval of the minutes
==========================

Previous minutes approved.

2a) note about datainfo min/max
===============================

Markus presents his rewording. A Minor discussion revolves around the possible clamping
of written and or read values.
As a result the part about rounding target values is to be removed.
After another, minor, discussion it became clear that the min/max clarifications are meant
for 'double' and 'scaled' datatypes.

2b) target_limits
=================

General agreement. After a discussion about vector magnets two new messages
are to be proposed: 'check' and 'checked'. They essentially siblings to 'change'/'changed',
but don't do anything, i.e. they only check if the desired change would be Ok or not.
A seperate Issue about this is about to be written by Markus.

2c) HasOffset
=============

minor discussion about what piece of description should go where.
Markus will reword the 'offset' parameter description and the feature 'HasOffset' accordingly.

2d) controlled_by
=================

Enno want to explicitly state that 'controlled_by' is a readonly as otherwise strange side effects are to be expected.

3a) Ennos templates
===================

Discussing comments from Anders and Niklas.
Some resulting clarifications:

- A Sensor without a Calibration is not Sensor, but a Readable.
- An Actuator driving a coil (valve), is not an Actuator, but a Drivable.
  (it just switches between two states.)
- parameters which influence functionalities which can be switched on/off
  ('ramp','i','d',...) have a accompanying boolean parameter with the same name,
  but prefixed with 'use_'.
- The proposed powersupply is a simplified version of the previously discussed ones
  optimized for singular use as a 'current source' only. 
  It should, however, be possible to combine them into the previously discussed scheme.
- Klaus asks Enno about more examples.


4) various
==========

skipped due to timeout.

5) next meeting
===============

2022-12-13 10:00.
