meeting 2022-09-22 (ZOOM)
=========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Lutz Rossa
     * Niklas Eckström
     * Georg Brandl
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Markus Zolliker


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 3


Agenda
------

1) approval of the minutes

2) define order of points below

3) put issue 65 into specs and reorganize predefined accessibles.
   https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/protocol/secop_specification_draft_wip.rst
   Please read carefully section 1.2 Accessibles for this.

4) next proposal for issue 73. Instead of the proposed reset_limits command,
   I propose a read only target_hardlimits parameter. Naming debateable.
   https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/protocol/issues/073%20HasLimits%20and%20HasOffset.rst

5) follow up of last meeting about templates. citation from the minutes:
   "Every facility should compile a few prosaic templates for discussion in next meeting."

6) finalizing orange example (minutes: "Lutz will rework the example for the next meeting.")

as Enno is not present we postpone items 1 and 4 on the Agenda

during the meeting, we add a new item (7: how to represent Measurables in SECoP) on the agenda


6) finalizing orange example
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

general agreement, however the redundant wording "wet" and "liquid helium cooled" should be removed.


3) put issue 65 into specs and reorganize predefined accessibles
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Klaus (who was not present at the last meeting) thinks that the specification of
'control_active' is not easily readable.
In addition, for the 'status' parameter, the meaning of the digits marked with X is not
explained.

Markus reworks these two things.


7) how to represent Measurables in SECoP
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

For a to be implemented use case of a light scatterin equipment sent from
MLZ to PSI Georg asked how to implement this in SECoP.

In the discussion we find a possible solution would be a drivable preset module and a
readable value module (in this case an array). The preset module would be just the number
of repeated data acquisition steps to be summed up.

In the example of a neutron detector the preset module might be the monitor, and the
value module the detector.

We would need a way to indicate, which module takes over which role.


5) templates
++++++++++++

We start with the example proposed from Anders/Niklas about a power supply module.

Remarks from the discussion:

- the idea of having a main module with a struct with two members 'voltage' and 'current'
  is not received well. better to have two modules 'voltage' and 'current', which might
  switch (even automatically) who has control.

- Markus does not like the idea of having a seperate ramping module. the aimed building blocks
  should be at the level of the implementation software, and might appear in SECoP in this
  case as a feature

In the discussion we detected also the limits might have two different meanings.
For example for a power supply in current control mode module might have limits
for the target, and limits for the voltage, which, when reached, will prevent
the current value to go to the target.

Despite Klaus has to leave at 15:10, we start a very short discussion at 15:00
about the cryomagnet power supply example. Klaus thinks, that the coil current
should be a seperate module with a value proportional to the field, while Markus
does not see the point to make a seperate module for it.
Also wheter it makes sense to make the persistent switch a seperate module is
questionable.



8) Next meeting
+++++++++++++++

2022-10-18 13:30, if agreed by Enno
