2-days meeting 2022-01-28 - 2022-03-01 (ZOOM)
=============================================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Lutz Rossa
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Niklas Eckström
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Anders Pettersson (2nd day)


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Issue 65: handling of coupled (sub)modules
------------------------------------------

The HZB people explain about their discussions and deeper thoughts about
issue 65. They identified two different things the ECS wants to be informed
about:

a) a module might be in a state, where the value of the target is inactive,
   i.e. has no more influence on the behaviour of any module

b) a modules target might be the output of an other module

In addition, we want to describe, how the coupling between modules may
be changed.

We agree that both should be possible:

1) changing the target of a module might switch to make its target active,
   by uncoupling its target from the output of a leader module, or by
   coupling its own output to the target of a follower module.
   (wording 'leader/follower' as alternative to 'master/slave' by Markus
   when writing down this issue)

2) changing the target of a module might complain when its target is not
   active or when its target is the output of a leader module.

The ESS should be informed whether (1) or (2) is implemented.


predefined behaviour / naming in SECoP
--------------------------------------

In the discussion we thought about a parameter 'linked_outputs',
being a struct with member names being modules, and member values
are a boolean indicating whether the module is linked or not.

Further evaluation discovered, that coming back to a parameter like
'controlled_by' is better, because no ambiguity is possible:
as it is not allowed to link outputs of two leader modules to
a follower at the same time. However, a better name is to be
searched, the proposition is 'linked_input'.

Even outside a leader - follower relation, it is possible that
a target is getting inactive. For this reason it is proposed to
have an additional 'control_active' boolean parameter for this.

Example: a power supply with 2 modules voltage and current.
Setting the target of one of them would set its own control_active
parameter to 'true' and the other to 'false'.

Instead of an additional 'control_active' parameter, it might be
an alternative to add an addition item "CONTROL_INACTIVE" to the 'mode'
parameter. However, the mode parameter is a writable, and the current
state is reflected by the status, so we would need an additional
predefined value for the status code.

An indication, whether changing target has the effect of changing coupling
of modules, is given by the presence of 'control_active' in the 'influences'
property of 'target'. If this is not present, the coupling may be changed
only by setting the 'control_active' or 'linked_input' parameter.


SECoP@HMC WP1
-------------

Klaus will send out a poll for WP1 for SECoP@HMC. The core team of WP1
it is identical with the SECoP committee core team.


Next meeting
------------

The next meetings are proposed for Monday 2022-04-04 10:00 and Wednesday, 2022-04-06 13:30.

