meeting 2024-01-17(ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Georg Brandl
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Niklas Eckstr√∂m

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1a) approval of the minutes 2023-12-19
======================================

Previous minutes approved.


1b) in person meeting 2024-03-14/15
===================================

No problems, keep date fixed


1c) github rendering issue
==========================

Klaus reports, that the spec is not rendering on the github page anymore.
Georg points out that this may be due to the length of the spec.
Markus states, that since we are switching to Alexanders split version anyway,
no much effort will be spend here.


2) open issues
==============

Klaus and Enno were too busy with other urgent projects, so no presentations got prepared.


Issue 76: Measurable
--------------------

Georg presents his rework on the Issue 76: Measurable.
An extension to the datainfo of ``Blob`` is needed (and seems a good idea anyway).
Or a new datatype ``matrix`` could be created, as proposed by proposed by Klaus.
Enno supports this.
Enno points out that having the dimensions before the actual data seems preferable.
Markus thinks that a JSON library should be able to handle an appropriately sized base64
anyway.
Klaus would also prefer to have the dimensions before the data in a
two-step process.

Peter ponders whether the ``get_data()`` is intended for the medium sized data or the full version.
And how the side channels may look like.
Georg points out, that a side channel (while still possible) was not the main goal of the proposal.
Klaus states that ``get_data()`` is intended for medium sized data.
For clarification: the ``value`` parameter will represent a cooked down version of the data returned
by ``get_data()``.

Markus points out some confusion about the new ``matrix`` datatype.
Georg will probably clarify in Issue 76.
Klaus ponders, if it is a good idea to have the medium sized data returned by the command ``get_data()``,
or if this should be a parameter.
Georg points out that, that using a command for big amounts of data carries the least momentum of surprise
und clogging the transfer path with possibly too frequent updates of too big size.

A minor discussion about whether the new ``matrix`` datatype is comparable to a ``blob``
or to a ``struct`` containing a ``blob``.


``quantity`` property
---------------------

Markus thinks that SECoP should not be bothered with implementation specifics of data storage
format (like Nexus). Also, adding a property to all parameters does not seem to be helpful.
Klaus points out that having this information may be super helpful, not only for Nexus.
As the property is seen as optional anyway, not all parameters need to have it.
Also, not only a keyword could be given, but also a link to a glossary/ontology defining
the keyword, future-proving the mechanism.

minor discussion about which ontologies/glossaries/lists to use/maintain.
Enno thinks, that references to ontologies/glossaries should be (if used at all) defined
on the SECnode and not on each property parameter.
Klaus restate that the minimum of cases include the units, the meanings and the quantity.
Georg wonders if units shouldn't be preferably be si-units.
Klaus points out that though degrees Centigrade is not an si-unit, lots of people
will rather use this instead of Kelvin.
Enno agrees that the maintenance effort of such glossaries is too much for the SECoP core team.

Enno is not in favour to store unused data, and hence raises the questions of the usefulness of this.
Georg points out, that due to current developments, SECoP may be required to provide links
to ontologies. Klaus points out that the properties will be optional in any case, only
the form/format of the entries need to be specified.

An example of such a glossary is here:
https://codebase.helmholtz.cloud/em_glossary/em_glossary/-/tree/main/terms?ref_type=heads


3) SECoP spec rewritten by Alexander
====================================

Klaus points out:

- introductions need a little smoothing
- section 2 starts somewhat *very* similar to section 1
- 'building blocks' should be renamed
- sometimes the wrong keywords are used (e.g. tupleof)
- further minor changes are needed

generally it looks fine and a nice approach.
Alexander is thanked for the work done already.

Agreement that minor changes and typo corrections could be done on the github directly.
Bigger changes should be reviewed through pull requests though.

Klaus points out, that the unique point of SECoP is not only defining things,
but also how to use it/interact with it, making it worthwhile to add a chapter
about his.

Klaus requests more pictures, especially for the introductory (sub) section(s).
Peter agrees, as a wall of text (especially in an introduction) is not encouraging people
to continue reading.

Klaus would like to get an introduction on how to change the spec, especially on the pull requests.

Markus proposes that Alexander makes a short presentation in the next meeting.

Klaus wants to have central point for the assigned todos.
Markus points out that his already exists:
https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/protocol/minutes/pending_tasks.rst

4) Date of next video meeting
=============================
2024-02-20 13:30-15:15

