meeting 2024-09-11 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Niklas Eckstr√∂m
     * Peter Braun

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1) approval of the minutes 2024-06-19
=====================================

approved.


2) Coordination for ISSE Workshop Contributions
===============================================

Markus
------

- Markus will give a general overview over the SECoP implementation landscape
- the abstractions (module base classes) will be shown in the talk
- there is some feedback on the slides

Klaus
-----

- overview Metadata in SECoP
- will touch on glossaries/vocabularies
- Show the new meaning
- in the end, discuss NeXus mapping

Second Talk of Klaus
--------------------

- Showcase SHALL Labview integration of a small example (press. sensor)

Peter
-----

- SECoP integration into BlueSky with secop-ophid
- continuation of Klaus' second talk

Second Talk of Markus
---------------------

- Frappy demonstration (practical)

Alexander
---------

- overview of the SECoP integration in NICOS
- experience report for porting an old driver to frappy
- depending on time mngmt, demonstrate Markus' SECNode in NICOS

Posters
-------

- Niklas will have a poster regarding octopy

3) Pending Tasks
================

The pending task list is updated.

4) New version of meaning
=========================

The final writeup is still in progress, but delayed because of hight workload.
Klaus shows some of Gerrits work.

5) Measurable
=============

Klaus would like to change the name. Peter proposes Triggerable.
There currently is no agreement on the name, but we will search for an alternative.

6) Templating / Systems
=======================

The pull request needs feedback, everyone should have a look at it until next time.
If there is time, the plan is to go through it in person at the ISSE meeting.

7) Clarifying Writable
======================

There is general agreement that the clarification goes in the right direction.
The changes are accepted, pending only feedback from Georg and Enno.
With the changes, Markus would now favour another name for Writable.

8) Any other items?
===================

- The split specification should be checked again.
- Klaus wants to have feedback on the idea of standardized properties for serial number etc.
There is some discussion about the website. For one, Version 1.0 should be present on the website.
Additionally, the remark that the rendered version is in progress should be made more obvious.

The public presence of the SHALL library is discussed. It is decided to add a repository to the SampleEnvironment GitHub organization.

9) Date of next video meeting
=============================

The meeting in October will be skipped.
The 05.11.2024 13:30 is proposed for now.
