meeting 2025-02-12(ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Niklas Eckstr√∂m
     * Peter Braun

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1) approval of the minutes 2024-11-05
=====================================
approved.


2) RFC-005: UDP Autodetection
=============================

Markus presents his current data-collection procerss which collects data from all sec-nodes (in a network) and
stores them in a common database. This is especially useful for collecting historic data.
It also requires mangling of the equipment id.

Klaus asks for a practical test. Markus replies that it is in use as documented in RFC-005. klaus seems happy with this.

Conclusion: general acceptance.


Help for GitHub Pull requests:

https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP

- click on "Pull requests" (item 3 on 2nd line in header)
- click on the selected one: "add RFC for UDP discovery"
- click on Commits (on top of conversation, 2nd item)
- either:
 - to see the changes in raw source: click on "add RFC for UDP discovery"
 - to see the rendered version: click on <> on the right of the topmost commit and then browse to the file to be seen


3) 'Measurable'
===============

see also https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/issues/24

Discussion started at the Proposition: discard the condition: "at least one channel MUST have a preset."

Markus presents his use case of some ultrasonic measurement device, which doesn't take that long.
Peter shows an example of an atomic mass spectrometer, where had to leave the preset as there
is no sensible parametrisation connected to a preset value.

In a longer discussion several points are discussed:

- Klaus dislikes the name 'preset' and prefers 'goal' or smth. similiar
- Enno acknowledges the fact that there may be use case where there is no sensible preset
- Enno propose to change the wording from 'MUST' to 'SHOULD' to cover those cases.
- Enno also states that always having the preset eases implementation
- above presented use cases could also use a 0..100% value with a preset of 100%.
  This would allow gui's to show the progress.
- Georg states that for showing progress bars in a gui an extra parameter of the controller seems better.
- Markus discusses the difference between measurement (channels) representing an increasing value (e.g. time, counts,...)
  from values where the statistical significance improves, i.e. the value itself roughly stays the same, but gets more precise.
- Enno thinks that instead of joining a controller with the only channel, the controller may get a 'representative' value,
  which in all cases could be useful. wording seems important here.
- further discussion about integration into ECS (e.g. nicos, bluesky): what is needed?
  it seems, a mapping is needed from the SECoP module name to the named preset names used by ECS's.
  (e.g. 't' as the preset for measurement time)
- wordings!
- agreement on discarding the condition: "use_preset must be there when preset is" (default when not present: use_preset=True)
- renaming Measurable -> Acquisition (Controller keeps name Controller), MeasurableChannel -> AcquisitionChannel
- Georg proposes the Controller to have a 'representative' value (and maybe a 'preset')
- a Controller is required to have a 'go' command.
- instead of defining a merged (controller+Channel) class, we may also list both in the 'interface_classes' list.
- Peter states that this is not a good idea, as the ECS should treat a module like the first known interface from interface_class.
- Enno agrees and proposes to use the 'features' list, though this means that corresponding features need to be defined.
- Markus proposes to rename 'preset' to 'target'. Enno has no objection. Georg doesn't like it. further discussion.
- agreement on renaming 'preset' to 'goal'.

Georg will rework the RFC.


4) finalize matrix datainfo
===========================

https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/abd1c12b88617c93edee1e0629d29c02599988c7/protocol/specification/datainfo.rst#binary-matrix-matrix

Since there are no objections, this is be accepted.


5) finalize check message and checkable property
================================================

if there are no objections, this should be accepted

check message:

https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/4fc717017a83254155060e30e64ab33ca30a920a/protocol/specification/buildingblocks.rst#check-value

checkable property:

https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/4fc717017a83254155060e30e64ab33ca30a920a/protocol/specification/buildingblocks.rst#optional-accessible-properties

Both are accepted as-is.


6) final reports of SECoP@HMC
=============================

Klaus asks anyone to check the deliverables/reports Peter prepared.

- https://nubes.helmholtz-berlin.de/apps/files/files/627996505?dir=/HMC_SECoP%40HMC/Steering_Board/Reports/Final_Report_2025
- https://nubes.helmholtz-berlin.de/apps/files/files/625971700?dir=/HMC_SECoP%40HMC/Steering_Board/Reports/Deliverable_D1
- https://nubes.helmholtz-berlin.de/apps/files/files/619391848?dir=/HMC_SECoP%40HMC/Steering_Board/Reports/Deliverable_D3.2


7) Website
==========

Klaus asks for a search function on the web docu.
Alex proposes the one on the top right. It seems not very comfortable.
Markus proposes to use google....

Shall/OctoPy are missing at the website as well.

Peter has problems to access the website repo (access expired) and asks if it can be moved to github.
No objection, but no excitement either.


8) Access levels
================

Klaus is working on a gashandling rack, consisting of several mass flow controllers (as individual sec-nodes)
and then combined into a 'management' sec-node.
There seem to be difficulties with 'locking' some modules from external access.

Markus proposes to use different port numbers for distinct access levels.

After some discussion it becomes clear that a paragraph in the spec mentioning the
problem of different 'access' levels and showing exemplary ways to tackle this problem.


9) outlook
==========

There are some project application deadlines approaching. (Oscars, automated beamline,...)
Klaus proposes a few project ideas.

The discussion did not trigger any storms of enthusiasm.

Klaus states that the NIAG will probably not do anything if we don't keep pushing.


10) Date of next video meeting
=============================

5(th) of March (Ash Wednesday), 09:00 via zoom.
