meeting 2025-03-05 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Niklas Eckstr√∂m
     * Georg Brandl

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1) approval of the minutes 2025-02-12
=====================================

approved.

2) meeting software
===================
As reported in the Invitation:

    .. cite::
    PSI is trying to save money by reducing the licence costs, e.g. for Zoom.
    So I might not be able to further host zoom meetings - if I can not justify that there is no
    viable alterative.
    Recommended alternative: Microsoft Teams. Objections?
    Possible alternative: somebody living at an institute with a less restrictive software policy
    hosts the meetings.
    Other alternatives?

- Teams is rejected
- Markus will check in at PSI, alternatively someone else will provide a Zoom Meeting

3) Acquisition proposal
=======================

From the invitation:
    Georg has moved the proposal form the old SECoP issue to an RFC, taking into account the
    things we discussed last time.

    What is still lacking or at least not fully satisfying to me, is how the ECS can determine
    exactly which modules belong to an acquisition. It is specified that they must belong to
    the same group. But is is not specified that there might be no other modules in the group
    and more important, the case where an channel belongs to several acquisitions, which would
    be possible. In addition, we have the question how to assign the channels to the preset names
    in NICOS. My proposition to solve above issues is to add a new module property 'acquisition_channels',
    with a JSON object with a name as keys and module names as values.

    Example: acquisition_channels = {"t": "timer", "cnt": "counter"}

    The names for the keys may be choosen freely, but we might also have some predefined names,
    mainly "t" for a timer. Later we might add more predefined items if it makes sense.

    In case of an Acquisition class a reference to its own module must be included.

Enno likes the proposed acquisition_channels property.
Klaus proposes a general solution similar to controlledBy: controls, which list all modules which are controlled, but lacks a distinct use case.
He dislikes to maybe have to change some acquisition specifc solution later to a more general one.
Georg ponders whether this can be expressed by the systems already.
Enno points out that the systems are very specific, i.e. adding a channel to an acquisition would mean, a new system needs to be specified.
Additionally, he would prefer waiting for uses before generalizing.
Markus wonders about a different name, which is more generic.
Klaus proposes to use the proposed syntax and, if needed, rename the property later.

Since the proposed property already groups together, the group requirement can be removed.

Markus is going to write a pull request.


4) other pull requests pending
==============================

The following pull requests are open

- clarify RFC life cycle
- add websocket RFC

Klaus asks whether the port used in the discovery RFC is known to be regularly used by other programs and how to prevent abuse.
The general information on port numbers don't list any registered or unofficial uses for the port.
Markus points out that due to the message structure a valid message can be distinguished from an invalid one.
Essentially there is no way to prevent accidential/abusive use of this port for/from other stuff.
Since broadcasts are typically restricted to instrument nets, there seems to be no big issue.


RFC lifecycle
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Georg ponders if the a new pull request should be open for a longer time to have a specific place to discuss it,
or if it would be beneficial to merge quickly and discuss afterwards and make changes, if needed, later on.
Markus and Klaus propose to keep it like it is now.
All agreed to merge pull request #25 ( https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/pull/25 ).

Websocket RFC
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As it is an optional suggestion, it is fine like it is but will be left open for more discussion.

5) AOB
======

Klaus will follow up on calls/grants (OSCARS,HMC,LEAPS) when he is no longer sick.

6) date of next meeting
=======================

07.05.2025 9:00 (zoom)
