Meeting @ HZB 2019-09-16
########################

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Anders Petterson
     * Enrico Faulhaber

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Opening (2019-09-16)
====================
Agreement on Agenda:

1) Collection of problems identified by different partners
2) Report Developments of Beer-Instrument in Prag
3) Go through Github pages for questions and clarifications
4) Discussion about Open SECoP Issues:

  #) Data structure / type - last questions
  #) Error messages: format change
  #) Status

5) What is left to be done for Sine2020?


1) Collection of problems identified by different partners
==========================================================

HZB:
    #) How to deal with mandatory entries, ehere the actual driver does not give any definition -> help for SECNode programmer?
    #) unit: 'no unit': how to deal with it
    #) is there a +Inf/-Inf in the answer to describe?

PSI:
    4) Ist it really needed to prefix not-yet-predefined parameter names?

MLZ:
    5) Why is the syntax so awkward complicated? (datatypes)
    #) Statuscodes got a mess: can't this be simplified?
    #) definition of other transport protocols? (binary?)
    #) How to handle large binary blobs more efficiently
    #) How to handle/manage high data rate data streams?


2) Report Developments of Beer-Instrument in Prag
=================================================

Beer is made to investigate strains in materials.
It was well running until the main person left.
James is retrying to get it running again, this thime with SECoP.
Doing so he found quite some questions and confusion grew after checking the github page.
Lutz managed to help out and continues to help setting up SEC-nodes.

Time stamping of events at rates around 1KHz seems to be required.

Experience from MLZ could be helpful here.

Lessons learned:
 #) we need an easy introduction to SECoP
 #) faster data rate / timestamping may be more important in the future

:note:
 James will be @HZB 21(st) oct to 25(th) oct for personal interaction.


3) Go through Github pages for questions and clarifications
===========================================================
1 Hardware abstraction
1.2 Accessibles
- status to be discussed
- mode to be discussed
after 1.9 interface classes: feature is missing

2.1 Message syntax
- specifier: in specifier picture invert order, put module:parameter first
- basic messages: did wwe decide that "describe module" is not possible?
- Correct handling of side-effects:
	- point 3: send update only to clients with activated updates (not subscribed!!!)
	- does not have to go to busy, what to do with constant status (always idle)?
	- I don't understand point 5
	- what to do if the sequence idle-> busy-> idle is quicker than the reply to the message?
	- do we really have to inform all clients about busy- idle?

	- Solution:Handshake: idle -> message (-> busy) -> message_reply -> idle
	- sending status = busy if NOT necessary (if there is no status busy), status can be constant
2.2 Message intents
- section Update
	- "An update may also be triggered by an read request, in which case the value reported
	in the data report is fresh (i.e. just obtained from a hw)."
	This is not always the case or is it defined like this that a read request triggers a
	read of the hardware? I don't think so.
	- Examples: in first example there is an error for the status
	(should not be there, error is handled in the second example)

- second Note in section Update: "to speed up the activation process.." "should not just be
	read FROM HARDWARE...."
- section Deactivate Updates
   	"The deactivate message might optionally accept a module name as second item of the
	message for module-wise deactivation..."
	Send an error message if module wise deactivation is not possible?
	Or deactivate all updates?
	Or do nothing?
- section Read request
	"the reply is an update message" I don't understand this. In the example there is a "reply" answer.
	I think there is old text that has tb be changed.
	- Same for the remark.
- section Execute command
	"Actions which have to wait for physical changes, can be triggered with a command, but not
	be waited upon before sending the reply."
	Clarify, I don't get this.

- section Error Reply / Error Classes
	Did we not decide that the reply is different: see Issue 45
	This has to be adressed.
	error_action
	see section 5.3
	An Error reply is still needed for things like
	> reaad tx: target
	< error NoSuchMessage
	Do we need an error class: NoSuchMessage?
- section logging
	this is an optional message. Do we have other optional messages?

3 Descriptive data
3.2 SEC Node description
- general: what happens if e.g. "equipment_id" is there twice?
3.3 Module Description
- section Mandatory Module Properties
	Note: as this is a list it SHOULD actually have been called interface_classes
	or interfaces
	Do it or remove Note
- section Optional Module Properties
- group
	"The lowercase version of a group must not match any lowercase version of a module name
	on the same SEC node."
	- this is true as well for all sections between separators
- section implementor
	is a string
- feature is missing here as Optional Module Property
3.4 Accessible description
- section mandatory Parameter propertis
	- "readonly" mandatory boolean value.
	Indication if this parameter may be changed by an ECS, or not
	I don't understand this
	- "datatype" change naming
- section Optional Parameter Properties
	- constant: waht is its datatype? boolean? constant:true

3.5 Custom Properties
- hint about the datatype of a custom property

4 Data Types
- new name: proposal data structure
- min max optional?
- inf?
- changing max, min to maxlength minlength in integer, string...
- string: maxbytes or maxchars ?
- remove "command" from datatype context, make it a standalone part
- float proposed double must single: comment what happens if max or resloution > single?

5
5.4 Message handling
- why 2 different flowdiagrams for requests and replies respectively?
- here error_action is correct
- remove buffer/buffered

4) Discussion about Open SECoP Issues:
======================================

5) What is left to be done for Sine2020
=======================================
