SECoP Meeting 2018-06-13/14 at ESS Lund
#######################################

participants
============
  - Niklas Eckström
  - Anders Petterson
  - Lutz Rossa
  - Frank Wutzler
  - Klaus Kiefer
  - Enrico Faulhaber
  - Markus Zolliker

(arrival + lunch)


first day
=========

Issue1
++++++
allow Extensions by creating a new Issue for the extension and referencing this in the closed Issues.

Issue9: meaning of modules
++++++++++++++++++++++++++

  * meaning: remove sample_prefix
  * discussion about the meaning of 'rotation', different possible rotations and names of them
  * main usage for rotation is supposed to be the rotation around the vertical axis, often called 'omega_rotation'
  
Final List of meanings:
  * temperature - temperature of sample
  * temperature_regulation - regulation of sample temperature, if different from above. 
  * magneticfield
  * electricfield
  * pressure
  * rotation_z (counter clockwise when looked at 'from sky to earth')
  * humidity
  * viscosity
  * flowrate
  * concentration

This list can be extended later. Extension Issue for this will be Issue26.
First proposed extensions: rotation_x, rotation_y, translation_x, translation_y, translation_z

'_regulation' can be postfixed, if the quantity generating module is different from the (closer to the sample) relevant measuring device.


Issue15: hold/go/abort etc.
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

abort may or may not change the target parameter. it depends on the hw.

Issue25: Pong format
++++++++++++++++++++

reword to focus on allowed/required formatting/parsing capabilities of the CLIENT.
clearify case where the secnode has no timestamp. Answer is then 'pong <id> [null,{}]'.

Issue24: Mix parameters and commands as accessibles
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Needs a new command datatype.

If more than one argument SHOULD be declared as struct.
Meaning of Result and Arguments SHOULD be written down in the description of the command.


(coffe break)

Issue18: Interfaceclasses
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

A module has a list of interfaceclasses and a list of features.
The interfaceclasses are listed in the reverse order of inheritance, ending with the first baseclass (Drivable, Movable, Readable, Module).
All Features are listed in the description.

Discussion about features, modularity, grouping, dependencies, subdevices, ...
discussion non-persistent vs. persistent magnet is very fruitful...

Idea: flag dependencies by using group property. 

  * class Magnet(Drivable, Has_Ramp):
     - unit='T'
     - may have Has_Persistence, Has_window, Has_Timeout Features
     - may have extra parameters: 'current_in_leads', 'switch_status'
     - with predefined meanings of optional things 'current_in_leads', 'switch_status', ???'ratio'???

Discussion about temperaturecontroller:
  * pid/pi/p /pid with base_output
  * feature HAS_PID provides parameter 'pid' which is a struct with named entities: p, i, d, base_value
  * only p is mandatory
  * class TemperatureController(Driveable):
    unit='K'/'degC'
    may have HAS_PID, HAS_ramp, HAS_calibration_curve, Has_pid_table, Has_windowtimeout features
    may have parameters: heater (in W) 

(dinner)

second day
==========

discussion about Feature HAS_PID
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

discussion about handling of features, interface classes, interoperability between versions.

  * official features/interface_classes used by the SEC node MUST be listed in a Features_list
  * if a feature is listed, all mandatory parts of it MUST be implemented as specified
  * optional parts of a feature/interface_class are, well, optional
  * predefined parameters (unprefixed ones) might ONLY be used of the feature/interface_class it defines is listed in the descriptive data
  * the ECS-client still has to be able to cope with unknown features/interface_classes. (which may use parameters without underscores)
  * Hint for implementors: The ECS-client SHOULD inform to the user about non-prefixed, 'unknown' parameters/interface_classes/features
    (things which are either from a newer specification or are wrong), but must be able to handle them via the fallback mechanism.
    Note: we don't want to nag people, but inform them (once per connect?)
  * note: implementors should either use p,i,d or pid, but ECS must be handle both cases
  * note: if both p,i,d and pid are implemented, it MUST NOT matter which one gets a change, the final result should be the same
  * note: if there are additional custom parameters with the same name as an element of the struct, the above applies
  * note: if extra elements are implemented in the pid struct they MUST BE properly described in the description of the pid paramter

done.

discussion about Has_Persistent feature.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

to allow a compact definition, a possible python declaration example is used here::

 class HAS_Persistent(Feature):
     Parameters = {
         'persistent_mode' : Param('Use persistent mode', datatype=EnumType(off=0,on=1), default=0, readonly=False),
         'is_persistent' : Param('current state of persistence', datatype=Booltype(), optional=True),
         'stored_value' : Param('current persistence value, often used as the modules value', datatype='main', unit='$', optional=True),
         'driven_value' : Param('driven value (outside value, syncs with stored_value if non-persistent)', datatype='main', unit='$' ),
     }

done.

discussion about stability feature
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

python declaration example::

 class HAS_Tolerance(Feature):
     # detects IDLE status by checking if the value lies in a given window:
     # tolerance is the maximum allowed deviation from target, value must lie in this interval
     # for at least ´timewindow´ seconds.
     Parameters = {
         'tolerance' : Parameter('Half height of the Window', datatype=FloatRange(0), default=1, unit='$'),
         'timewindow' : Parameter('Length of the timewindow to check', datatype=FloatRange(0), default=30, unit='s', optional=True),
     }

 class HAS_Timeout(Feature):
     Parameters = {
         'timeout' : Param('timeout for movement', datatype=FloatRange(0), default=0, unit='s'),
     }

meh!

more discussion about the way to go.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

  * features should be seperate functional subgroups, but may have optional parameters
  * go for a small amount of features and for small implementation effort on SEC-node
  * shift work to ECS-Side

(lunch)

discussion about mandatory/optional, derivation, features, and so on.

  * interface_class define mandatory and optional accessibles and a predefined set of included features 
  * mandatory parts are derived from mandatory parts of the base class as well as the mandatory parts of the included features
  * optional parts are derived from the optional parts of the base class and optional parts of included features
  * a derived interface_class may still be combined with features not yet contained in its definition (via its base_classes),
        it may NOT be combined (again) with features already contained therein.
  * both mandatory and optional parts may be extended with further accessibles, also: optional parts may become mandatory,
    but not to opposite way.

  * if two or more accessibles work together on a common functionality, they should belong to a feature

agreement of the features:
++++++++++++++++++++++++++


python declaration example::

 class HAS_PID(Feature):
    # note: implementors should either use p,i,d or pid, but ECS must be handle both cases
    # note: if both p,i,d and pid are implemented, it MUST NOT matter which one gets a change, the final result should be the same
    # note: if there are additional custom parameters with the same name as an element of the struct, the above applies
    # note: (i would still but them in the same group, though)
    # note: if extra elements are implemented in the pid struct they MUST BE properly described in the description of the pid paramter
    Parameters = {
        'use_pid' : Parameter('use the pid mode', datatype=EnumType(openloop=0, pid_control=1), ),
        'p' :       Parameter('proportional part of the regulation', datatype=FloatRange(0), ),
        'i' :       Parameter('(optional) integral part', datatype=FloatRange(0), optional=True),
        'd' :       Parameter('(optional) derivative part', datatype=FloatRange(0), optional=True),
        'base_output' : Parameter('(optional) minimum output value', datatype=FloatRange(0), optional=True),
        'pid': StructOf(p=datatype=FloatRange(0),
                        i=datatype=FloatRange(0),
                        d=datatype=FloatRange(0),
                        base_output=FloatRange(0),
                       ),  # note: struct may be extended with custom elements (names should be prefixed with '_')
        'output' : Parameter('(optional) output of pid-control', datatype=FloatRange(0), optional=True, readonly=False),
    }


 class Has_PIDTable(HAS_PID):
    Parameters = {
        'use_pidtable' : Parameter('use the zoning mode', datatype=EnumType(fixed_pid=0, zone_mode=1),
        'pidtable' : Parameter('Table of pid-values vs. target temperature',  
                               datatype=ArrayOf(TupleOf(FloatRange(0), 
                                   StructOf(p=datatype=FloatRange(0),
                                            i=datatype=FloatRange(0),
                                            d=datatype=FloatRange(0),
                                            _base_output=datatype=FloatRange(0),),), optional=True),  # struct may include 'heaterrange'
    }


 class HAS_Persistent(Feature):
    extra_Status {
        'decoupled' : Status.OK+1,  # to be discussed.
        'coupling' : Status.BUSY+1,  # to be discussed.
        'coupled' : Status.BUSY+2,  # to be discussed.
        'decoupling' : Status.BUSY+3,  # to be discussed.
    }
    Parameters = {
        'persistent_mode' : Parameter('Use persistent mode', datatype=EnumType(off=0,on=1), default=0, readonly=False),
        'is_persistent' : Parameter('current state of persistence', datatype=Booltype(), optional=True),
        'stored_value' : Parameter('current persistence value, often used as the modules value', datatype='main', unit='$', optional=True),
        'driven_value' : Parameter('driven value (outside value, syncs with stored_value if non-persistent)', datatype='main', unit='$' ),
    }


 class HAS_Tolerance(Feature):
    # detects IDLE status by checking if the value lies in a given window:
    # tolerance is the maximum allowed deviation from target, value must lie in this interval
    # for at least ´timewindow´ seconds.
    Parameters = {
        'tolerance' : Parameter('Half height of the Window', datatype=FloatRange(0), default=1, unit='$'),
        'timewindow' : Parameter('Length of the timewindow to check', datatype=FloatRange(0), default=30, unit='s', optional=True),
    }


 class HAS_Timeout(Feature):
    Parameters = {
        'timeout' : Parameter('timeout for movement', datatype=FloatRange(0), default=0, unit='s'),
    }


 class HAS_Pause(Feature):
    # just a proposal, can't agree on it....
    Commands = {
        'pause' : Command('pauses movement', arguments=[], resulttype=None),
        'go' : Command('continues movement or start a new one if target was change since the last pause', arguments=[], resulttype=None),
    }


 class HAS_Ramp(Feature):
    Parameters = {
        'ramp' : Parameter('speed of movement', unit='$/min', datatype=FloatRange(0)),
        'use_ramp' : Parameter('use the ramping of the setpoint, or jump', datatype=EnumType(disable_ramp=0, use_ramp=1), optional=True),
        'setpoint' : Parameter('currently active setpoint', datatype=FloatRange(0), unit='$', readonly=True, ),
    }


 class HAS_Speed(Feature):
    Parameters = {
        'speed' : Parameter('(maximum) speed of movement (of the main value)', unit='$/s', datatype=FloatRange(0)),
    }


 class HAS_Accel(HAS_Speed):
    Parameters = {
        'accel' : Parameter('acceleration of movement', unit='$/s^2', datatype=FloatRange(0)),
        'decel' : Parameter('deceleration of movement', unit='$/s^2', datatype=FloatRange(0), optional=True),
    }


 class HAS_MotorCurrents(Feature):
    Parameters = {
        'movecurrent' : Parameter('Current while moving', datatype=FloatRange(0)),
        'idlecurrent' : Parameter('Current while idle', datatype=FloatRange(0), optional=True),
    }



discussion about:
  * rheometer
  * spectrometer
  * high pressure liquid chromatography pump
  * syringe pump
  * (not easy on/off) valves
  * flowmeter

  * spectrometer returns a spectrum -> datatype of value is an array -> solved
  * complex pumping systems with lots of valves: lots of different modules or complex configdata blob if cannot be broken down

proposal for a list of interface_classes from mlz will go to Issue27

Meeting is closed 16:45

