Videoconference 2021-06-09
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Anders Petterson
     * Niklas Eckström
     * Markus Zolliker


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Agenda
------

Discuss the description of SECoP example modules 

1) Example from PSI: PPMS (physical property measurement system) plus additional LakeShore 370 resistance bridge
2) Example from HZB: Orange cryostat draft

1) PPMS + LakeShore 370
-----------------------

The following issues were discussed:

* Parameters '_persistentmode' and '_enable' in the magnetic field module should be unified to 'mode'
* The 'implementation' module property from Frappy is not (yet) standard
  (see `SECoP Issue 61: new predefined property implementation`_)
* The '_timeout' parameter in the temperature implementation matches the predefined 'timeout' SEC node property.
  It is proposed to change the name of the parameter.
* in the temperature module there is a '_workingramp' readonly parameter indicating the actually used ramp,
  where the 'ramp' parameter is the wanted ramp. Enno proposes to define a naming converntion for these
  cases, like wanted_ramp, actual_ramp (`SECoP Issue 62: naming convention for related parameters`_).
* The main value of the chamber module is an enum. The numbers of the enum of 'value' and 'target' should match
  after the target is reached. Actually they do not, because the meaning of the numbers is taken from the
  hardware. Klaus proposed to use commands on a (to be created) pressure module. This has the disadvantage that
  the Drivable interface can not be used for waiting for success. In fact in the implementation at PSI, the
  pressure reading is not yet impermented
* The LakeShore370 resistivity module has several parameters which can take a discrete number of floating
  point values, typically 2 values per decade. Actually it is represented as an enum, with the value/unit as
  name and the internal integer representation as number. It is proposed to extend the SECoP specification
  for this case (`SECoP Issue 63: enumeration of floating point values`_).


2) Orange cryostat draft
------------------------

Klaus mentions that when discussing this issue, they found that the SECoP specification may
need some clarifications/improvements. We create an issue `SECoP Issue 60: enhancements to the documentation`_
for collecting these items.

The discussion was started, but for time reasons interrupted and postponed to the next video meeting at 2021-06-17.

.. _`SECoP Issue 60: enhancements to the documentation`: ../issues/060%20enhancements%20to%20the%20documentation.rst
.. _`SECoP Issue 61: new predefined property implementation`: ../issues/061%20new%20predefined%20property%20implementation.rst
.. _`SECoP Issue 62: naming convention for related parameters`: ../issues/062%20naming%20convention%20for%20related%20parameters.rst
.. _`SECoP Issue 63: enumeration of floating point values`: ../issues/063%20enumeration%20of%20floating%20point%20values.rst
