Videoconference 2018-12-03
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Niklas Ekstr√∂m (on behalf of Anders Petterson)
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Frank Wutzler

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2

Opening
-------
Agreement on the agenda previously sent by Markus.


Issue 51 No Restrictions on Datatype Nesting (proposed)
-------------------------------------------------------
recommend to use a simple as possible structure, but don't restrict the nesting level.
agreed, closing this.


Issue 52 Include Some Properties into Datatype (proposed)
---------------------------------------------------------
Klaus likes the current definition better.
Enno disgrees with Lutz's proposal.
Lutz wants to have properties/information on the same level.
Also he thinks the descriptive data is more easy to read.

A discussion about the secop philosophy takes some time....
The discussion goes on about which 'properties' are properties of the parameter and which are actually 'properties' of the datatype.

Agreement on the need of a structured way of adding units/fmtstr.

Disagreement on the way to implement it.

Proposal to change 'datatype' to 'datadescriptor'.

Enno finds the idea of a 'datadescriptor' description intriguing.
Klaus likes that as well.

Decision is postponed. Everybody needs to think about all the agreements exchanged.


Clarifications in the SECoP specification
=========================================

various topics which came up during work at the current specification.


custom status values
--------------------
The meaning of custom status values is only unique for the same defining facility.
That would need a way to determine the defining facility
(i.e. a string-type property on the sec-node).

Add an optional 'implementor' property on the module as a string.
Custom status values must be interpreted in the context of the implementor.

Markus writes an issue for this.

General agreement that even custom staus code have to be implemented properly.
(so that they cann all be mapped to the generic SECoP codes).
Also a central registry is out.


Issue 45: Async error updates
-----------------------------
It seems easier to stick to normal 'update' and 'error' response and not enforce
using a 'update' message with an error qualifier.

Needs further discussion.
Issue 45 is to be re-opened.

Klaus proposes to use a new message type 'reply' for replies to 'read'requests to better distinguish async and sync read requests.
Lutz proposes 'value'.

Markus opens a new issues about 'splitting `update` into two messagetypes'.


Communicator class
------------------
Agreed to have 'Communicator' as the 4(th) base class.
Communicators are intended for communications and don't provide the otherwise mandatory 'value' parameter.
ECS which don't want to use communicators can savely skip those.

Integrate the above into the specification.


next face-to-face meeting
-------------------------
* 20(th)/21(st) of March at ILL.


preparation
~~~~~~~~~~~
Discussion about the time when an 'changed' or 'buffered' value is effective and-or should be effective
and how to mark/transform this.

A collection of use cases may help A LOT here.
Also a few sequence diagrams of expected order/timing of events may help
to further tackle this.

Maybe extend Issue 028/29 with some use case....


next vidconf
------------
2019-03-13 10:00 o'clock.
