Videoconference 2021-09-29
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Niklas Eckström
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Bastian Klemke (joined later)


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Agenda
------

3-days meeting (30. Nov, 1./2. Dec).
   Collect issues to discuss, define meeting hours.

Issue 61: new predefined "property" implementation

Issue 67: names pid control parameters

Issue 63: enumeration of floating point values

Issue 66: force re-connect

Issue 64 / 68: multiple read / change commands


3-days meeting (30. Nov, 1./2. Dec).
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

time:
    on nov 30(th): 10:00-12:00, on dec 1(st) and 2(nd): 10:30-12:00.

location:
    via zoom conference, link will be distributed in advance.

topics:
    all open issues, interface classes, parameter namings, etc...

Issue 61: new predefined "property" implementation
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Klaus emphasises the need for a clear definition of the content of the properties.
A few examples seems to be nice.

minor side-discussion on how to proceed with such changes.

Markus will add a "changes" section to the current draft version of the spec,
listing the changes (and adding a few examples in the relevant (sub-)section(s)).

Issue 67: names pid control parameters
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Enno proposes to have a predefined group name ("regulation"?) for all parameters concerning
a regulation functionality. having the p,i and d parameters named as proposed is fine, though.

Conclusion of a small discussion: proposal accepted (3 individual parameters called "pid_p",
"pid_i" and "pid_d".) predefined group name proposed to next meeting.

Issue 63 enumeration of floating point values
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Enno points out a few surprising side-effects which may happen with sec-nodes without float support.
Discussion about the need of the "valuetype" entry.

Counter usage example is if a user tries to set a value which is not amongst the "values" mapping.

Enno has two thoughts about this:

1) why not extend a "double" typed parameter with a property "restricted_values"
    containing a list of all allowed values.
    Markus mentions that this may be uncomfortable for the user, if the parameter range spans
    several decades. This could be handled in the ecs, though.

2) a set of two 'linked' parameters: one of "enum" type (as before) and a "double"
   (or "scaled") which represents the wanted numeric representation value of the selected
   enum value. updating one of those linked parameters will then have to also update the
   other parameter. Open question: indication of this linkage via an additional property
   "influences" (a list of parameter names being potentially changed by a change of this
   parameter) or via a "common name prefix/suffix"?

Discussion continues....

Opinions seems to tend to favor proposal 2) with the property.

Discussion about depending parameters and use cases.
Lutz writes a new proposal (related to Issue 65) about this.


Issue 66: force re-connect
++++++++++++++++++++++++++

These are essentially two points:

1) the ecs may need to signal to the sec node that it should clear its
   connections state (in case it is a serial line).

2) the secnode may want to signal to the ecs that the description has changed a
   needs to be re-read.

Point 1) can be solved by defining that ``*IDN?`` always clears the connection state.
A client should issue a ``*IDN?`` anyway as the first request.
Lutz points out, that an 'activated' serial line may send out 'garbage' bytes
before the reply, which were already in-flight. The change in the specification
therefore needs to be worded carefully.

Agreement on ``*IDN?`` always clearing the connecting state and ``*IDN?`` must
be the first command issue upon a fresh connection.

point 2) can be solved by dropping/closing the network connection.
Serial lines need a different mechanism.
An additional error message could be defined to signal this.
The error message should be returned to any request (and as async 'update' error):
"error_closed".
An ecs need to re-open (and re-init) the connection and re-read the description.
If the sec node issues an "error_closed" message, the ecs needs to issue the ``*IDN?`` /
``describe`` commands (on order) to re-init the connection.

discussion goes on about when to to clear the 'this connection needs to re-read
the description' and whether the sec-node should enforce a certain sequence of
requests upon opening a new connection.

Issue 64 / 68: multiple read / change commands
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

postponed to next meeting.

