Videoconference 2018-12-03
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Niklas Ekström (on behalf of Anders Petterson)
     * Enrico Faulhaber

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Issue 26: More Module Meanings
------------------------------
close for now. maybe reopened later, if needed.


Issue 37: Clarify status
------------------------
discussion about naming and ways to 'acknowledge an error'.
need better definition/clarification of ``reset``.
``reset`` should **NEVER** end in a BUSY state, but may also be used to acknowledge an error.
current definition of ``reset`` should be reworded.

A command acknowledging an error is needed (lets call it ``ack_error`` for the moment.
Also a command 'setting the module in a predefined state' command is also defined.

discussion about ``prepare``, ``shutdown`` ``reset``: meanings and semantics

Markus proposes to remove ``shutdown`` and ``reset`` (in its current form)
and handle those cases in a separate 'Mastermodule' with a specialized interface_class.
This should be discussed in Issue 22.

If something influences more than one module, it should be handled by a 'master' module.
For this a module-property 'master_of', listing the names of the controlled modules should be defined.
This shoould also have a specialized interface_class.
Discussion should continue in a new Issue.

We need a command which acknowledges an error, the name is not yet defined.
Enrico likes ``reset``, Klaus dislikes this. Markus prefers ``ackerror``.

All agree, to reserve codes like 'x0y' for further usages by the specification.

Discussion about assignment of error-codes to 'disabled'.
Enrico thinks 'disabled' should be a distinct state, not an error.

After a discussion, 0 is neglected. 500 should be used for ``DISABLED``


Issue 43:
---------
If a a numeric parameter has no physical unit, the unit property is not mandatory.

In addition, the qualifier name 'unit' is to be reserved (meaning the same as 'u').

We don't want to support dynamic units.
Units SHOULD be 'defined' in the descriptive data **only**.

Issue should be marked as **EXPERIMENTAL**.
Issue is to be closed (for now). It may be re-opened.


Issue 45: Async error updates
-----------------------------
should be renamed!

an error preparing an async update should be transferred as an ``update`` event
with a json-null value in the data-report and (in this case only) have an
error-qualifier `error` specifying the error message, the ``error`` reply would have contained.

We essentially want to transfer two additional informations:
 1) the read failed
 2) why the read failed.

agreement on using ``null`` for the value for (1) and using a qualifier ``error`` for (2).

Discussion about what information should be contained in the qualifier?

A second version could be use an error-report which would have been sent if the ECS would have triggered the ``read`` on that parameter.

Discussion about putting all information into an 'error' qualifier or re-using the error-report.

Also, transferring the 'lastvalue' is rejected.

summary:
~~~~~~~~
whenever an async update can not determine its value, it should send an ``update`` message with a data-report containing json-``null`` and an additional qualifier ``error`` (which is only present in this case!).
The qualifier should be a modified error-report, containing the error-class instead of the origin.

The spec needs adaptions: the secnode may now send async error-information.

Also, the usage of json-null is to be added to Issue 21.
(Issue 21 should stay closed).


Issue 47: Error classes
-----------------------
add "OutOfRange"


Issue 46: remote logging
------------------------
Agreement, closing Issue.


Issue 48: mode parameter
------------------------
Markus raises the questions, how to handle multiple, independent operation modes.
Enrico wants to see a use case.

Klaus agrees on having a reserved name ``mode`` as an enum.
It has to be specified in the specific classes anyway.


Issue 44: scaled integers
-------------------------
Discussion is postponed.

Same for other unresolved issues.


Next meeting
------------
Jan. 16(th) 2019 at 10:00 o'clock as video conference.
