Videoconference 2019-01-16
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Niklas Ekstr√∂m (on behalf of Anders Petterson)
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Frank Wutzler (joined later)

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Opening
-------
Agreement on the agenda previously sent by Markus.


next face-toface meeting
------------------------
* proposed to be on 20(th) of March to 21(st) of march.
* alternative is 11(th) march to 12(th) of march (latest 13(th) midday)
* Klaus sets up a doodle and coordinate with ILL people.


SECoP Issue 37: Clarification of status
---------------------------------------
* Lutz proposes that ECS should treat state codes which are not defined (i.e. outside of 100-599) should be treated as UNKNOWN.
  These codes should be treated like an ERROR (from the 4xx error group).
* Enrico proposed to define UNKNOWN as code 0.
* Klaus likes DISABLED to be 0, no UNKNOWN code, an ERROR should be used.
* Markus agrees essentially, but likes to use 401 for UNKNOWN.

Agreement on:

* statuscode for DISABLED is 0, UNKNWON is 401
* stauscodes 1-99 are RESEVED and MUST NOT be used, if they are seen, they are to be interpreted like DISABLED.
* close the issue


SECoP Issue 46: remote logging
------------------------------
The JSON-value true should not be used, instead the string "off" shall be used.
agreed, closing this and put into specification.


SECoP Issue 48: mode parameter
------------------------------
* reservation of name `mode` is not needed.
* Enno proposes to suggest that enum-member 0 shall be used for a good, 'default' setting.
* generall agreement, accept and close and put into specification.


SECoP Issue 50: Reserved Names
------------------------------
* should be kept open as an internal 'quick overview' of proposed names/functionalities
* should also contain a link to the issue
* decided items (which are in the specification) shall be removed from this issue.


SECoP Issue 35: Partial Structs
-------------------------------
* new idea has no compatibility issues.
* issues is lacking some examples.
* agreement on it, but partiality should never be mandatory.
* updates and replies MUST still contain the full struct, only the `change`/`do` actions may use the partial struct.
* agreement, close the issue and put into the specification


SECoP Issue 44: Scaled integers
-------------------------------
* long discussion about the use case and the goals of the specification
* Niklas proposes to also include an (optional) offset or an higher order polynom.
* Enno dislikes to have polynomials of higher order than 1 (as they may be not be reversable).
* Klaus dislikes to have a recipe to transform numbers, but likes the datatype.

Agreement on the issue in the current form, close the issue and include in the specification.


SECoP Issue 47: Error classes
-----------------------------
agreement on its current form, needs more examples, close the issue and put into sspecifiaction


SECoP Issue 49: Precision of Floating Point Values
--------------------------------------------------
* Markus proposes to split the formatting (`fmtstr`) hint and the resolution hint (`resolution`) as different properties.
* `fmtstr` should be (restricted) c-style printf like formatting string ('%.4f')
* `resolution` should be in two properties: `absolute_resolution` and `relative_resolution`, containing floating point numbers.
* except for the name change, agreed, adapt the issue (Solution c) , close and put into specification.


SECoP Issue 38: Extension mechanisms
------------------------------------
primarily an internal document. used for finding good ways for extensions.

can be closed, tagged as internal document.


SECoP Issue 40: Finalise Specification
--------------------------------------
the issue is like a 'todo' reminder ticket. Markus will work on this


SECoP Issue 28: Clarify buffering mechanism + SECoP Issue 29: New messages for buffering
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
first discussion will ILL people happened, but not all questions are answered.
Issue 29 Shall be closed at the ILL-meeting, Issue 28 needs rethinking after Issue 29 is agreed and closed.

next vidconf
------------
2019-02-20 10' oclock
