Videoconference 2018-12-03
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Niklas Ekstr√∂m (on behalf of Anders Petterson)
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Frank Wutzler

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2

Opening
-------
Agreement on the agenda previously sent by Markus.

Discussion about the issues Klaus found during implementation of a magnet.

Enrico prepares a demo of a switching magnet with/without substates.

Prepeparation of Meeting at ILL
-------------------------------
Everybody should prepare (as homework) possible sequences of substates for magnet/motor/temperature controller.
Also: are these substates are a nice to have feature for the user or crucial for operation.

Discussion about 'measurements'. and their usage and status codes.

Klaus proposes to write down our handshake model more explicit.
Enrico proposes to use more sequence diagrams.

What are the 'features' their ECS relly need to use.
We should focus on discussions of use cases, not pre-existing solutions.


Discussion about renaming of 'datatype'
---------------------------------------
As there are no strong reasons to rename it, Enrico is against it.
The proposed renaming to 'datadescriptor' is rejected.


Discussion about change of the format of 'datatype'
---------------------------------------------------
After a lengthy discussion, further discussion is postponed.
A good compromise could be to stick to [<identifier>, {key:value pairs}].


Issue 53: Custom Status Values / 'implementor' property
-------------------------------------------------------
There should only be a single implementor per *module*.
Discussion about the format of it and how to format an implementor.
The implementor should be globally unique.

The specification may need a (short) section about how to generate the required uniqueness of the names.


Issue 54: Splitting _update_ into two Message Types
---------------------------------------------------
The reply to `read` is to be renamed to `reply` instead of `update`.
Agreement on this.


Discussion about 'Issue 45: Async error updates'
------------------------------------------------
Related to Issue 54.

Here the splitting of `update` into two different messages is discussed.
Klaus likes to have two actions for `error` and `update_error` but sticking to the same format.

Agreement on having explicit error messages, sticking to the same format.

Enrico proposes that error messages start with 'error_' followed by the original action, the original specifier and then
an json-array containing the error-class (instead of the origin as of now).

Discussion about transaction ids - rejected as not needed as the SEC-node should keep the order of requests.
Also, only *one* synchronous command per specifier is intended to be used.


Communicator class
------------------
Markus agrees on having an (abstract) base class for 'communication modules'.
Lutz denies the existence of a proper use case.
Enrico disagrees.

After a discussion about several use cases, 'Communicator' as accepted as the fourth interface class.


frequently asked questions
--------------------------
Frank and Lutz found some frequently asked questions: where to put them?
May be very helpfully to discuss for the 'secop-rules' and for teaching SECoP.

Agreement on putting it on github.
Details are to be discussed before and at the next meeting.


next meeting
------------
2019-03-20..21(st) at ILL.
