Videoconference 2019-04-11
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Anders Petterson
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Frank Wutzler

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Opening
-------
Discussion about keeping the order of dict elements (for properties/accessibles/modules).


Interface classes
-----------------
not discussable yet, shifted to the next meeting.


datatype properties
-------------------
how to store e.g. the limits on the double datatype?
specify min/max as JSON-null, or leave them out?

decision: mandatory items always have to be specified and can not be JSON-null.
optional items can be left out, but not be JSON-null.

agreement on this.


discussion about storing the unit in the property
--------------------------------------------------
this seems straightforward for all types, but the array.
Still, this is consistent.

For storing vectors with components differing in value, a tuple shall be used, not an array.


min property for string and blob
--------------------------------
the default value of min=0 may be omitted.


default fmtstr for double/scaled
--------------------------------
for "double":
        "%.6g" (which is the same as "%g")
for "scaled":
        "%.<n>f" where <n> = max(0,-floor(log10(scale)))
        for example: scale = 0.0888888 -> default fmtstr = "%.2f"
        scale = 15 -> fmtstr = "%.0f"

fmtstr is optional and defaults to above value if omitted.


Issue 28+29:
------------
close them as not needed.


abort command
-------------
remove `abort` as there seems to be no need.


reset command
-------------
The `reset` command should stay as currently defined.
A new command `clear_errors` should be defined for *just* clearing an error state.
If the error cannot be cleared, the status should still be (a possible different) error state before the command reply is returned.


'time_to_target' parameter
--------------------------
is used by at least one ECS. Keep this as an optional parameter (for Drivable).


Issue 56: Additional Busy States
--------------------------------
BUSY seems to have at least 3 very similar meanings:
 1) means: we are waiting for the value to reach the target
 2) some action is still being performed
 3) we have to wait until we can do the next thing.

Those 3 meanings are not exactly the same but are very often treated similarly.
It is undisputed that 1) and 3) are BUSY.
It seems also clear that 2) not coinciding with 1) or 3) is not needed to be BUSY.
It must be IDLE then.

proposal:
 * 100: general IDLE
 * 101: cleanup (case 2))
 * 300: general BUSY (1) or 3))
 * 301: preparing (case3) before case 1))
 * 302: ramping (case 1))
 * 303: finalizing (case 3) after 1) and before 2)/IDLE)

301/preparing seems to be unneeded.

It seems we need more use cases and concentrate on them.

Agreement on BUSY = case1 1) OR case 3)
2) may be BUSY or IDLE (proposal: 303/101)

Markus will (re)write an Issue about the specifics of MOVING/FINALIZING substates.

no final agreement, topic postponed.

next meeting
------------
personal meeting around 20/21 of May. @HZB or @MLZ.
(Klaus makes a doodle).

next vidconf 8(th) of May 2019, 10:00 o'clock,
