Videoconference 2019-07-09
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Niklas Ekstr√∂m
     * Anders Petterson
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Frank Wutzler


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Opening
-------
Discussion of the agenda.


Agenda
------

1) syntax of modules / accessibles description (issue 58)
2) status codes / mode / set_mode (issue 59)
3) freezing SECoP syntax
4) next steps

1) syntax of modules / accessibles description (issue 58)
---------------------------------------------------------
Short discussion: the result is to keep commands/parameters mixed as accessibles, transfer as a JSON-object (where the order may be destroyed).
Keeping the order may later be re-added by an 'order' property.


2) status codes / mode / set_mode (issue 59)
--------------------------------------------
Markus presents Issue 59 and his thoughts.
Which information should be handled by mode/set_mode and which should stick to status?
Which commands to keep and which should have an equivalent mode/set_mode value?

A change mode command should not be rejected (unless the new state would be forbidden) while a target change is effective.
Also, a target change should not be rejected, while a mode-change is in progress unless the resulting combination is invalid.

side-discussion: WARN_measure should be 200, WARN_no_measure should 250.
side-discussion: the information about stable/unstable should stay in status.
side-discussion: mode/set_mode is a good candidate for a Feature.

agreement: shutdown/prepare/finalize should be replaced with mode/set_mode.

Klaus has some doubts about specific use cases and will think hard about it.


3) freezing SECoP syntax
------------------------
There are currently no unresolved issues with the current syntax (mind the above change! + the change agreed in the last meeting.).
If we ever have to change the syntax again, we make a new version.

Everybody should check the current draft for any incompatibilities/problems/issues...
Formally, the syntax will be officially fixed at the next meeting.

Agreement on this.


4) next steps
-------------
- decide about the mode/set_mode stuff
- check specification for **syntax** issues, communicate via e-mail
- any sine2020 todo's leftover?
- next meeting 2019-08-07 13:00
