Videoconference 2019-08-07
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Anders Petterson
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Frank Wutzler


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Agenda
------
1) formally decide on the Syntax
2) while working on the draft, I found the following things:

  a) we did not formally decide, but I think we should recommend that the range and resolution of
     a SECoP 'double' should not be expected to be more than a IEEE-754 double.
     Please find a proposed text under 4.2 Floating Point Numbers.

  b) I think we decided about a limit of 24 bits for ints (vidconf_2018-11-07), but this was not yet
     in the standards draft. Please find a proposed text under 4.4 Integer

  c) When Enno reworked the draft some time ago, he changed the content of the 'visibility' property
     from numbers (3,2,1) to strings ("expert", "advanced", "user"). For me this is o.k., but we
     should decide formally.

  Please read the draft in order to find other issues which you believe are not clear enough, or
  which are decided in a meeting, but not mentioned.

3) mode/set_mode stuff  ->  issue 59:
4) SINE2020 todos leftover
5) SECoP logo
6) next vidconf


1) formally decide on the Syntax
--------------------------------
final decision postponed to next meeting (around mid of september).

Klaus points out that 'datatype' may be misleading and proposes to change it.
discussed alternatives 'datastructure', 'datadescriptor' and 'typedescriptor'.
'descriptor' is reject as it is too close to 'description'.


2a)
---
put a remark there mentioning the topic, but we don't want to put a restriction here.


2b)
---
put a remark there mentioning the topic, but we don't want to put a restriction here.
'integers ,may be limited by the use of a specific json library'.
'anyway, if you think you need such big numbers, you should redthink your decision'.


2c)
---
Should be strings. It should be noted, that ONLY the 3 predefined strings are allowed.


2d) unit for 'integer'
----------------------
consent is to allow units for integer, albeit discuraging using this, except for special (i.e. counting) cases.
If a *physical* unit is used, a double or scaled integer *should* be used.


3) mode/set_mode stuff -> issue 59
----------------------------------
op_state and op_mode are intended for micromanagment, whereas status is intended to reflect to overall status of the module.
agreement on having a simple flow control via status.

Markus refines the issue to reflect to discussed points and to clarify even more.
The general concept is accepted though.


4) SINE2020 todos leftover
--------------------------
None yet known, expect some to pop up until end of August, when Klaus will have prepared
the final paperwork for SIN2020.
Last septemberweek there will be a test between HZB and some people from Prague.


5) SECoP logo
-------------
Accepted.


6) next vidconf
---------------
2019-09-18 @ 13:00

7) next face2face meeting
-------------------------
Anders will send a doodle around. It may be before the planned vidconf or replace it.
