Videoconference 2021-09-29
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Niklas Ekstr√∂m
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Anders Petterson (joined later)


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Agenda
------

* Discuss possibilities of meeting in persona

* Discuss the issues 60..67

  60) enhancements to the documentation
  61) new predefined property implementation
  62) naming convention for related parameters
  63) enumeration of floating point values
  64) reading multiple parameters simultaneously
  65) handling of coupled modules
  66) force re-connect
  67) pid control parameters

possibilities of meeting in persona
-----------------------------------

Klaus suggest to meet at least a day (if regulation permits).
If regulations forbid, we can switch to zoom.
Markus proposes to block a set of several days (3) and meet (online) for a few (2) hours
only, giving brains time to relax and digest the in-between discussions.


60) enhancements to the documentation
-------------------------------------

The issue is to be kept as collection point for further points.
No details are added during the current meeting.

61) new predefined property ``implementation``
----------------------------------------------

Markus will prepare some solution and present next time.

62) naming convention for related parameters
--------------------------------------------

Discussion revolves around the necessity of having such parameters.
Conclusion ist to collect sensible prefixes with their meanings,
but not enforcing any implementation to implement all/any of these.
If they are implemented, they must respect those name prefixes.
Markus presents the case of a wet magnet, where the actual_ramp may differ from the wanted_ramp,
but those quantities can't be coerced together, because during ramping down, the magnet needs to
know up to which ``wanted_ramp`` the ``actual_ramp`` should be increase to.

63) enumeration of floating point values
----------------------------------------

Discussion revolves around the need for and the use case of having 'float enums'.
Enno believs that a string is good enough.
Klaus and Lutz propose to 'augment' the enumeration with a float value.
Enno thinks that there are only very special uses cases actually needing this and
thoses cases could easily be handled be parsing the enum strings (which would need to correspond to some
parseable format).
Klaus wants to augment enums with an optional value to safe the parsing.
The extra value can be savely ignored by ecs.
Klaus and Lutz will come up with a proposal how to implement that.

64) reading multiple parameters simultaneously
----------------------------------------------

Markus: no priority, may be dropped.
Enno: no use case, drop it. If really needed, it needs a proper implementation in the secnode and async mode.
Klaus hints that simultaneous capture of temperature and resistivity (of the temperature sensor) is sometimes required,
or that a tension rig need to capture several, related values at the same time.
Enno states, that if the hardware does not support simultaneous capture of several values,
there is nothing one can do to get those values captured at the same time.
If the hw is capable of sampling several values at the same time, it should send out those values with the same
timestamp. This only works in async mode, of course.
After a lenghty discussion, an extension to the ``read`` command, accepting a (comma separated)
list of specifiers and replying for each specifier with a normal read reply.
Markus would accept it. Enno sees no priority on this, but will no reject.

Topic postponed to next meeting.

65) handling of coupled modules
-------------------------------

Enno presents his few of interdependend modules.
Few aspects are already solved, others need to be discussed:

* How to indicate which (sub)modules belong together (same group?)
* How to indicate which (sub)module is currently in charge (new status code?)
* How to switch the controlling module (setting a target on the new controller?)
* How to limit the value of the dependent module(s) (with a limiting parameter on the dependant module(s))
  (parameter names ``max_value`` / ``min_value``)

Main discussion is around how to indicate, which module is in charge and which is (currently) dependant on which.
(and on which it could be dependant).
Major agreement about switching the controlling module by setting the target.
Enno propose to add a parameter ``controlled_by`` (datatype string or an enum) which is either empty (module is not dependant) or
contains the name of the controlling module.
Using an enum would also indicate which (sub)modules belong together.
Adding a (module) property ``controls`` (a list if module names) seems beneficial to be able to
foresee sideeffects of setting a target. (the information content is essentially deducable from the controlled_by enum entries).
Agreement for a module can only be controlled by *ONE* other module at any time.

A dependent module should not display ``BUSY`` status codes, it should ``WARN`` instead.
General agreement to the idea, proposal will be updated.

66) force re-connect
--------------------

Markus thinks that both sec-node and ecs need a way to re-init the connection.
Since this is also needed for serial connections, a simple disconnect of the network connection is not sufficient.
Lutz proposes to use a special status code for this.
Klaus proposes to use an error-reply from the secnode, if the description changed inbetween and needs to be re-read.

Essentially we try to several problems here:

* The secnode needs a way to inform the ecs about a changed description
* an ecs needs a way to reset the serial line to a fresh state

The first seems to be solvable by defining a new error message which is sent out 1) as an async message and 2)
as a reply to any request until a describe request is sent again on this connection.

The second problem can be solved by a special command, or by re-using '*IDN?' to clear the connection status.
Agreement on using '*IDN?' to clear the communication status of a serial line (ONLY) to a virgin state (comparable to a fresh network connection).

67) pid control parameters
--------------------------

Agreement to use individual parameters, grouped together by the ``group`` property.
Klaus suggests to use slightly different names: ``pid_p``, ``pid_i``, ``pid_d``.

No final decision, as lunch comes close.

next meeting
------------

next zoom meeting 2021-11-03 10:30

possible date for face-to-face meeting 2021-11-30 to 2021-12-02.
possible location: PSI, HZB, ESS

