Videoconference 2021-06-17
==========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Anders Petterson


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Agenda
------

Discuss the description of SECoP example modules

1) Continue discussion of Example from HZB: Orange cryostat draft
2) Example from mlz: 3He cryostat json description


1) Orange cryostat draft
------------------------

Klaus presents his ideas about different 'levels of implementation',
i.e. what a Basic, Advanced and Expert (full) implementation of a cryostat
with a temperature regulation loop and several sensors could look like.

Discussion about strong coupling of temperature and resistance value upon reading as a tuple.
Alternatively, the resistance could be a separate module.
Another way would be to specify a 'raw_value' or 'resistence' parameter.
Klaus raises issues about synchronism of these connected parameters.
Enno proposes a caching solution, exploiting the order of accibles in the description.
Enno and Markus doubt the general need to have these values tightly coupled as a tuple, as one can be calculated from the other.
For the time beeing, Klaus will implement the tuple as a custom parameter.
Markus suggests to evaluate the idea of having a 'Multiple Read' command in
`SECoP Issue 64: evaluating the need for reading multiple parameters simultaneously`_.

Discussion about p,i and d vs. pid as a struct.
Klaus would also include the heaterrange in the pid.
Discussion needed.
See: `SECoP Issue 67: pid control parameters`_.

Next point is 'mode' where Klaus proposes to 'disengage' the regulation temperature module
for the 'openloop' mode, which is controlled by a different module, controlling the heater power in that case.
Enno and Markus would prefer to keep this functionality in the regulation module.
A longer discussion about how to handle such cases in a more generic case.
Markus points out that the meaning of the 'value' of a module should never change.
See: `SECoP Issue 65: handling of coupled (sub)modules`_.

Discussion about the need to have and ways to implement a selection one of several
Temperature sensors as the one used for regulation.

Discussion about calibriation (data) and how and when this is or should be accessible.
It is probably best to provide this data as properties.
Upon change of calibration, the description reflects the new values.
This means that clients need to re-evaluate the description and we need a way to signal
this to the clients from the sec node.
See: `SECoP Issue 66: force re-connect`_.


2) Example from mlz: 3He cryostat json description
--------------------------------------------------

Approach is found to be a good one, Klaus especially likes the common prefix
for modules representing the same type of physical quantity (temperatures, pressures).
However, the heaterrange should be included in the regulation modules. All agree on that.
Also, small case p would be better prefix for pressure sensors.

A short discussion about if and how to include a schematic (svg) picture of a complex setup (like a gashandling system)
ends quickly with no result.

The case of standardizing access to p,i and d (or pid) is getting more urgent.

Due to holiday season, the next meeting will be probably 18(th) or 27(th) of august (around 10:00).

.. DO NOT TOUCH --- following links are automatically updated by issue/makeissuelist.py
.. _`SECoP Issue 64: evaluating the need for reading multiple parameters simultaneously`: ../issues/064%20reading%20multiple%20parameters%20simultaneously.rst
.. _`SECoP Issue 65: handling of coupled (sub)modules`: ../issues/065%20handling%20of%20coupled%20sub%20modules.rst
.. _`SECoP Issue 66: force re-connect`: ../issues/066%20force%20re-connect.rst
.. _`SECoP Issue 67: pid control parameters`: ../issues/067%20pid%20control%20parameters.rst
.. DO NOT TOUCH --- above links are automatically updated by issue/makeissuelist.py
