2-days meeting 2022-07-04 - 2022-07-06 (ZOOM)
=============================================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Lutz Rossa
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Anders Pettersson
     * Enrico Faulhaber


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 3


Agenda
------
1) discuss the description of the HZB Orange cryostat example

2) finalise issue 65 (handling of coupled submodules).
   Please look at the proposed addition to the spec draft (last section Decision).

3) discuss issue 73 (HasLimits / HasOffset).
   main things to discuss here:

   a) is it acceptable, that changing a target parameter might raise an error,
      even if the value is inside the specified range in datainfo min/max?
   b) do we need features for this functionality, or is it sufficient to
      define predefined parameters and commands?
   c) may we approve the principle?

4) discussion about template description

5) next meeting


2022-07-04
----------

1) description of the HZB Orange cryostat example
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Lutz and Bastian present the current proposes example.
Markus starts the discussion by stating that a module representing a temperature should start with capital 'T'.
Enno points out that so far we have no naming convention.
Markus points out that a best practice or convention should be put into a seperate issue.
Klaus prefers to keep lower case level.
Markus points out that if a module for a power is named 'P', a second module representing
a pressure can not be named 'p' as the names would clash.
Bastian proposes 'temp' for temperatures and 'pres' for pressures instead of 't' and 'p'.
Enno would prefer full words, i.e. 'temperature' and 'pressure'.

Markus points out that the meaning properties are missing and they should be added
to avoid having to guess.

The 'optional' and 'mandatory' fields in the current example should be removed to avoid
confusion with 'optional' and 'mandatory' from the specification.

Renaming from orange cryostat to 'a wet cryostat' is proposed by Klaus, to signal that the example
is meant as a more generic example.
Also, the custom extension (marked by names starting with '_') should be more clearly marked
as custom extensions (a '_' is easy to overread).
Enno expresses his fear that a later specification of those custom extensions later with a slightly
different semantics may easily be skipped by implementors by just removing the leading '_'.
Klaus thinks that explicitly stating custom extensions as such should be sufficient,
as there may always be a slack between the current specification and what implements
implement.

Enno suggests to add an reference to the relevant issue for the 'heater_power_*' parameter pairs.

The arrows of the diagrams are discussed. The 'going up' arrows (indicating reading a physical value) should be removed.
Further use cases are discussed, answering some of Bastians questions regarding switching of control.

The example should be reworked for discussion in the next meeting.

2) Issue 65 (handling of coupled submodules)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In principle the current wording is Ok, with a few minor corrections/improvements needed.
Markus will reword the issue and represent in the next meeting.

3) Issue 73 (HasLimits / HasOffset)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

An intense discussion starts.
Enno don't mind that a reconnect is needed whenever a property changes, Klaus and Markus
stringly prefer to avoid that. Hence, a parameter, overriding the limits in the datainfo
is discussed.
Enno points out, that discussing several hierarchy levels of access (Sec-node configurator/SE people, instrument users...)
simultaneously is not helping. Also, there are several kinds of offsets/limits, not all of them
should be accessible/visible by the ECS.
Enno thinks that 'adjust' should be mandatory compared to 'offset' as its more generic.
Klaus proposes to use a Feature for the adjust/offset thingy.
Enno agrees on having a Feature CanAdjust having a mandatory 'adjust' command and an optional 'offset' parameter,
as this is the more generic approach.
Markus prefers 'offset' and to have 2 different Features.

a) is it acceptable, that changing a target parameter might raise an error, even if the value is inside the specified range in datainfo min/max?
................................................................................................................................................

general agreement.

b) do we need features for this functionality, or is it sufficient to define predefined parameters and commands?
................................................................................................................

seem to need more discussion, as it depends.



4) discussion about template description
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

postponed to next meeting.

next meeting
++++++++++++
2022-08-10 13:30
