meeting 2022-09-22 (ZOOM)
=========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Lutz Rossa
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Enrico Faulhaber


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 3

Agenda
------

1) approval of the minutes from 18th October
   Remark: Point 3: it is not Markus, but Klaus who should reword the section about 'controlled_by'

2) next meeting
   Enno is blocked on the 16(th), so next meeting ist at
   A second meeting is announced for Wednesday 30th November 10:00

2) refinement of specs (rewording of controlled_by)

3) Issue 73 (HasOffset, target_limits), see the next proposal:

https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/protocol/issues/073%20HasLimits%20and%20HasOffset.rst

If we agree on this, the idea to indicate partial changes of the descriptive data may be obsolete.
I propose to postpone the discussion until the need arises.

4) best practice examples:

   a) Cryomagnet example:
      https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/protocol/examples/cryomagnet_draft.rst
   b) templates from Enrico (see attachment)

5) datainfo limits

Regarding the Sensor module in the attached document from Enricos, the following might be considered:

When a value in a change message is outside min/max in datainfo, the SEC Node MUST reply with an error message.
However, a SECoP conforming server is allowed in read or update messages to return values out of range.

If we agree, this should be mentioned in the specs.

6) Measurable

1) approval of the minutes from 18th October
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

approved.

2) refinement of specs (rewording of controlled_by)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Klaus presents his rewording of `controlled_by` in the spec.
A few minor points seem to need a slight improvement.
All should re-read the spec-wording carefully to find possible misunderstandings.

3) Issue 73 (HasOffset, target_limits), see the next proposal
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A short discussion if the existence of the offset parameter is sufficient results in 'no',
as 'guessing' Features or Interface classes from existence or types of parameters is not good.
The 'offset' parameter *must* exist for the HasOffset Feature, though.
General agreement.

4) best practice examples
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

b) Ennos template
.................

- Sensor:
  After some discussion, Klaus points out that it makes more sense to define a feature
  HasCalibration. Everybody agrees.
  Also, it should be put into the specification, that it is perfectly for a sec-node to return
  values outside of the limits given in the datainfo.
  Sending values outside the limits of the datainfo, however, ist still forbidden
  and a sec-node *MUST* reject thoses requests with an error reply.

  Enno will write an issue about introduction of the HasCalibration feature.
  The template proposal will be accordingly reworded to use Features instead.

  The Sensor is then a Readable with HasCalibration.

- Actuator:
  Markus would like to allow either 'speed' or 'ramp'
  Klaus points out there are already some parameters ('time_to_target', 'setpoint', 'ramp')
  defined which are already defined.

  It seems to make sense to define two new features:

  HasRamp:
    mandatory parameters: 'ramp', unit is unit of value per minute.
    optional parameters:
    'time_to_target', 'setpoint', 'use_ramp'

  HasSpeed:
    mandatory parameters: 'speed', unit is unit of value per second
    optional parameters:
    'time_to_target', 'acceleration'

  An Actuator can than be a Drivable with eiter HasSpeed or HasRamp and may also include HasCalibration.


Meeting is concluded here, remaining topics are shifted to next meeting.

Appendix
--------

Enno's template proposal as discussed
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Thoughts about templates
========================

My last proposal was too fine grained by pressing everything in full detail in the same hirarchy.
So this won't work in the end.

Lets try to build it bottom up and find a descriptive structure for this later.

Sensor: a Readable Module with additional calibration information
    (for meta-data storage) in the readonly parameter `calibration`.
    (curve number, ...)
    It may contain extra commands to update the configuration (load a new curve, ...).
    It may have a parameter or command to initiate a self-calibration,
    in which case the need for doing (or the succesfully execution of) a
    self-calibration needs to be reflected in the status parameter.
    It has no other means of modifying the read value, unless those modifications are
    properly reflected in the `calibration` parameter.
    The datainfo property of the `value` MUST reflect the trustworthy range of
    the calibration. i.e. any value returned outside this interval is
    considered 'uncalibrated'.
    Also, if there is a calibration active, the raw sensoric value (from which the actual value is
    derived) may also be included as an qualifier in the read/update messages.

Actuator: an Actuator Module is a Drivable which has a `ramp` and a `speed` property
    which defines the speed of movement.

PIDController: a PIDController Module is an Actuator which additionally has a readonly
    parameter `setpoint` indicating the currently active setpoint
    (which is ramped according to the `ramp` setting).
    The `ramp` parameter gives the rate of change of the `setpoint`
    in `target.unit` per minute. The parameter `use_ramp` indicate whether
    the setpoint is ramped or jumps upon a target change.
    The PID part operates on the actual (sensoric) `value` using control
    parameters from the `ctrl_pars` struct parameter containing optional `p`,
    `i`, `d`, `base_output` and `max_output` paramters.
    The generated output value of the PID control is reflected in the readable
    parameter `output`.

    If open-loop operation is desired, an additional Writable Module should be
    implemented which reflects the physical output value.
    Control should then be switch via the `controlled_by` mechanism to that additional module for open-loop operation.
    Setting a target in the PIDController then reclaims the control over the output module.


PowerSupply: a Actuator Module
    must have an enum mode parameter indicating the type of quantity which is
    controlled (current/voltage/power/...)

    may contain 'max_<quantity name here>' parameters to indicate the maximum
    value for the not controlled quantities.

    a 'full' power supply implementation has a PowerSupply module for each
    quantity, switch to the active one via the 'controlled_by' mechanism.


Cryostat:
    A physical construct, allowing to temperate a sample to a selectable
    temperature within limits given by the secnode.
    Needs at least a PIDController for the role of 'regulation' and a
    Sensor for the role/meaning of 'sample_temperature'.

    May contain:

    - a Heater output Module indicating the output value from the PIDController.
    - an indicator for the amount of (liquid) cooling reservoir (LN2/LHe/...)
    - a Switch for activating a dry cooling apparatus
      (may also have several cooling power settings...)
    - further (Temperature/Pressure/...) Sensor's distrubuted inside for
      monitoring purposes

Magnet: an physical apparatus which can appy an selectable magnetic field
    to a sample.

    must have an Actuator Module for the magnetic field (linear or as vector)
    (having the role of the `magnetic field at sample`)
    (The 'ramp' parameter indicates the wanted ramp rate. In cases where the actual
    ramp rate may have to deviate, it is advised to have a readonly
    'actual_ramp' parameter indicating the actual ramp.)

    may have one (or several in the case of vector fields)  PowerSupply Module(s)
    reflecting the current through some coils creating the magnetic field.

    may also have a Sensor (linear or vector) for indicating the field at the
    sample position (typically by measuring it around it in selected places)


Measurable: is a Readable for which a process need to started to get an updated value.
    There are cases where the process can be paused (and resumed).

    it must have a `start` command to initiate the process,
    indicate the process running via the status (indicating a BUSY state).

    it may have a `preset` parameter (to indicate a target process value).

    several Measurables using the same process should by grouped via the `group`
    module property, the first one reaching the set preset value should the stop
    the process for all.

    note: the value may be an array, in whcih case further parameters/properties
          are needed to correctly describe the content.

    note: proper meanings are not yet defined

