meeting 2022-12-13 (ZOOM)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Georg Brandl
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Anders Petterson

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 3


Agenda
======
1) Approval of the minutes from 30th November

2) refinement of specs

3) items resulting from last best practice discussions

  - proposal for check/checked message (see issue 75)
    https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/issues/075%20New%20messages%20check%20and%20checked.rst

  Who writes issues about:
  - 'use_' prefix
  - from power supply example: 'quantity' module property, 'max_' prefix
  - Measurable

4) *IDN? message: although we have defined it as "ISSE&SINE2020,SECoP,..."
   I think it was a mistake to include a sponsor in the IDN.
   We might specify, that a client must be more tolerant, e.g. just checking
   for <anything except ,>,SECoP,*

5) more best practice examples:
   - Magnet from Ennos templates
   - examples/cryomagnet_draft

6) next meeting

7) various

   - SECoP@X-MAS

1) Approval of the minutes from 30th November
=============================================

approved

2) refinement of specs
======================

Discussion about the wording of changes.
General agreement, though a minor rewording ssems neccessary for the datatype of the offset.

3) items resulting from last best practice discussions
======================================================

check/checked messages
----------------------

General agreement on the proposal. A 'checked'/'error_checked' message *should*
only be sent to the ECS which sent the 'check' message
A minor discussion, essentially re-iterating the use case, resulted in
an addition to the 'error_changed' message to include the 'closest_valid' qualifier as well
in case a 'check' requested would have returned an 'error_check' with that qualifier.
Enno raises the question, whether 'check' only checks the (current) range, or if
also state-dependent checks are included.
After a minor discussion about use cases, agreement resultet in having the check
beeing stateless, i.e. only checking the (current) range(s).
i.e. if the valid range of a module A depends on the value of module B,
a check on the target on the module A shouldn't consider a possible restriction due to
a changed value of module B.
A lively discussion results in the insight, that we have actually 3 possible answers to
a 'check' message: either unconditional success (*should* always work),
conditional success (may work or not, depending on other conditions),
or unconditional failue (will never work).
As a result, a qualifier 'condition' is proposed to indicate the conditional success.
The content should be a human readable, but machine parseable format.

New Issues
----------

- 'use_' prefix
    Enno

- from power supply example: 'quantity' module property, 'max_' prefix:
    Markus

- Measurable:
    Georg


4) *IDN? message
================

Markus and Enno propose to change the 'ISSE&SIne2020' part to just 'ISSE'.
general agreement, though interoparibility issues should be addressed.
(proposal: clients maus accept both the old and the new *IDN reply, SEC-nodes
are only allowed to send the new version)

A minor discussion about versioning and breakage resulted in:
'we are going to release v1.1 of the spec after the chang/changed message and the changed IDN
are included'.

5) more best practice examples:
===============================

Magnet from Ennos templates
---------------------------
Should be put into the examples directory on github.

Proposed Magnet class does not work for vektor magnets, which should be master module on top.
Magnet should include (optional) persistent stuff.
If a magnetic component is also wanted as current, this needed to be an extra module.

examples/cryomagnet_draft
-------------------------

General agreement.
Discussion about the 'switch heater' module, which would be nice to have as a Readable
in user level und as a Drivable in expert level.
Currently we only have visibility, so we can only 'remove' the module in user level.
Either visibility gets modified, or an extra 'accesslevel' property gets added
to give the minimum level for beeing able to write.

An intense discussion results.
Further discussion seems needed.
However, a few points seems to be clear:

- the main module represents the magnetic field (in Tesla) *at* *the* *sample* and is the
  relevant module for an ordinary user. It may, however, have a way to indicate
  the current in the coil (as 'raw' qualifier or extra RO parameter).
- other modules are mainly important for SE people and/or debugging/troubleshooting.
- handling the persistence stuff is important, including 'coil_current' and 'lead_current'.
- A Feature 'Has_persistence' seems sensible.
- Since the main module is the relevant module for the user, everything needed during an
  experiment (including switching between persistent/non-persisten mode),
  needs to be accessible through that module.


Times run out, so we stop here.



6) next meeting
===============

2023-01-16 10:30 and 2023-01-17 9:00.


7) various
==========

Markus shows a nice SECoP related X-MAS video.
