2-days meeting 2022-05-23 - 2022-06-01 (ZOOM)
=============================================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Lutz Rossa
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Anders Pettersson
     * Enrico Faulhaber


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Agenda
------

1) Interface classes or Features?
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

With a real example from SINQ (sample stick motor at cryomagnets)
Markus wants to discuss the usefulness of features (or interface_classes).

2) more general discussion, how to go on with interface classes and features
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

e.g. what to do when an interface class does not fit perfectly?

Issue 27, extract from the proposals from Enno:

Readable: has value and status
Sensor(inherits Readable): has calibration, value is numeric, (optional adjust command)
Writable(inherits Readable): has target
Drivable(inherits Writable): has busy status and stop command
Actuator(inherits Drivable): has ramp/speed, (optional adjust command)
PIDController(inherits Actuator): has ctrlpars, setpoint, mode, output

This does not address:

- 'calibration' may be combined with any other
- 'ctrlpars' may exist without 'ramp/speed'
- 'adjust' command may be combined with any other

If we want interface classes with well defined behaviour, we will
need a class for each valid combination of predefined parameters,
which will lead to a combinatorial explosion. There are already
16 possible drivable combinations alone with "calibration",
"adjust", "ramp" and "ctrlpars"

We could take only the most common combinations, with additional,
optional parameters, but what is then the benefit of classes?

If an ECS needs classes, it may find the best match from the existing parameters,
and make parameters not existing on the SECoP module dummy, omit parameters not
existing on the class or expand classes with a list of key / value pairs.

3) meanings
+++++++++++
- temperature (sample T, might be drivable, but not needed)
- temperature_regulation (heat exchanger T, probably a drivable)
- ...

For data storing, concerning temperature, above is sufficient.
However, for control, it would be a benefit to know, which one has to be driven.
Should we extend the meanings?

4) what SE is interesting to be stored over long term
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

1) only store the main data (the ones with meanings) together with the scan files
2) store the full timeline of SE data over (a part of) an experiment in addition.


2022-05-23
----------

1) Interface classes or Features?
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Markus starts by proposing two Features HasOffset and HasLimits, driven by his needs to
support a sample rotation motor.
Klaus wants to clarify if both Features and Interface classes can be freely combined.
Enno clarifies that this is in principle true, but it makes no sense to only use Features,
as the combinatorical amount of possible combinations grows too big.
Also it makes more sense to combine selected features with an existing interface class as
a new interface class.
Klaus summarises.
Markus prefers to just have the Features, as it is not easy to see, which features are
within an extended interface class.
Klaus points out that we already have optional accessibles in the existing interface
classes, so if things are missing there is no problem.
Markus doesn't see the need of having interface classes.
Enno presents another multiple scale view on the problems, as Features and interface
classes on the module level are comparable to collections of modules and templates on
higher levels (up to the sec-node).
A lively discussion goes on. As a result, extended interface classes must be handled the
same way as specifiying the basic interface classes plus the used features
(which together would make up the extended interface class).
Enno proposes to include the composition of interface classes within the description.
Klaus is not happy with this, as Features and Interface classes should be defined in the
specification.

2) more general discussion, how to go on with interface classes and features
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Markus thinks that an ECS may provide functionality derived from the existence of
properties of accessibles only, and does not necessarily need interface classes.
Klaus states that the interface class is the specified one.
Markus doesn't want to create the list of proposed interface classes.
Enno points out that if an optional Feature can not be emulated by the ECS,
its badly designed.
Klaus summarises that we want to have 'templates' defining optional and mandatory
modules/properties on collections as well as Interface classes/features defining optional
and mandatory accessibles on the module level.
Enno will make a proposal for the machine-readable format.

Markus don't want to just brainstorm these things, but wants to have a proposal beforehand.

3) meanings
+++++++++++

Markus wants to know how to handle cases where the relevant sample regulation point
changes during an experiment/the livetime of a secnode.
Enno points out that meaning and priority are intended to solve this and if this is
insufficient, you would need another module which handles this dynamically.

4) what SE is interesting to be stored over long term
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Markus points out that there are several needs for storing/searching SE data.
Enno points out that this is a) the problem of the ECS and b) you typically store both
a continous timeseries as well as a copy during the relevant neutron counting time.
Klaus points at that there are several questions related:

* what do we dump into the nexus file (during scans/counts)
* what do we do with the information colleted between the above.

After a discussion, it seems clear that every secop module with a meaning *must* be
stored in the neutron data file and that all data retrieved via secop should
*at* *least* be stored as a time-series (format not yet clear), but may of course be
(selectively) included in the neutron data.


2022-06-01
----------

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Lutz Rossa
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Enrico Faulhaber

Agenda
++++++

1) discuss the JSON description of the HZB proposal of the orange cryo
2) Issue 72 (features)
   https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/issues/072%20features.rst
3) Issue 73 (HasLimits and HasOffset)
   https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/issues/073%20HasLimits%20and%20HasOffset.rst
4) Ennos proposal on how to encode additional definitions in the descriptive data
5) other still open issues
6) next meeting


1) discuss the JSON description of the HZB proposal of the orange cryo
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Markus raises the question, if UTF8 makes sense on unit-strings, or if we should
restrict to ASCII.
Enno points out out that ASCII is too restrictive, but predefining a mechanism on how
to construct valid unit strings.
A similar discussion happens about the status texts.
Agreement on sticking with UTF-8, an issue on how to construct/parse valid unit strings is to be proposed.

Markus raises the question about the formatting of the 'calibration table' parameter.
Klaus states that this is currently a custom extension and as it is defined as an array of struct,
it is fine.

A discussion about the need of the 'go' command (or if this should be preferred or recommend) ensures.
Is the implementor of a sec-node deciding whether a 'go' command is defined, or should this
be based on the functionality of the module?
Enno proposes to discuss 'go' and 'shutdown' in the sense of a template-level command.

Agreement on publishing the example (without the go/shutdown commands).
Klaus would like to publish a commented version, to clarify where future changes / specifications may happen.
It will probably be published in multiple forms.
Markus proposes to use the 'rst' syntax. No disagreement.

Klaus/Lutz will prepare the 'to-bu-published version' before the next meeting to discuss it there.

2) Issue 72 (features)
++++++++++++++++++++++

This is essentially a more precise specification than point 5.something in the specification.
Everbody agrees.

3) Issue 73 (HasLimits and HasOffset)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Enno questions the usefulnus of *these* features, as the complexity should be on the ECS
and not on the secnode. Also, there seems to be no benefit, as the ECS needs to be capable to
correct offsets anyway.
Markus points out that if multiple clients connect, the other clients should be able to show the
'corrected' values. Klaus points out that the way to achieve this should be standardized.
Everybody agrees on this.

Enno points out that having an 'adjust' command may make sense on those cases.
Markus states that having the offset value available is needed if switching between several configurations is desired.
Enno agrees, that if the complexity of applying the offset is indeed moved to the sec-node,
the proposed features make sense.
After a intense discussion, we found out that limit changing and adjustments need to be part of SECoP (and of course in a predefined way).
Enno sees the use case, but dislikes certain consequences:
the limits in the datainfo would need to be adjusted which would require a reconnect.

Klaus dislikes dynamic datainfo limits and proposes to have an additional rawvalue/rawtarget.
An intense discussion continues.
Markus poropses that if there are 'userlimits' available, they should be used by clients,
otherwise the datainfo limits are to be used.
Enno points out that modules implementing an offset then aly need to have userlimits.
Markus disagrees.
Discussion gets more intense.
Enno points out that if needed, a second 'transforming' module could be created.
It also seems we need to revisit our model of the purpose and interaction of modules.
Nobody seems to like the idea of a forced reconnect upon changing an offset.
As a result, a userlimits parameter is needed whenever a transformation is changeable via SECoP.
Klaus figures out, that the limits are actually optional, so leaving them out would avoid needing a reconnect.
Enno still *strongly* prefers to have reliable limits.
Markus will re-work the porposal for discussion at the next meeting.

4) Ennos proposal on how to encode additional definitions in the descriptive data
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Klaus like that the proposal is machine-readable.
Everyone agrees, that the final location of those added meta-data is to be discussed.
Enno explains the basic ideas behind the syntax.
Klaus likes the general approach, but details need to be worked on.
Discussion postponed to next meeting.

next meeting
++++++++++++
2022-07-04 10:30
