meeting 2022-10-18 (ZOOM)
=========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Niklas Eckström
     * Georg Brandl
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Anders Petterson

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 3


Agenda
------
Agenda:

1) approval of the minutes

2) define order of points below

3) refinements of specs (issue 65 and reorganize predefined accessibles)
   https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/protocol/secop_specification_draft_wip.rst
   Please read carefully section 1.2 Accessibles for this.

4) next proposal for issue 73. Instead of the proposed reset_limits command,
   I propose a read only target_hardlimits parameter. Naming debateable.
   https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/protocol/issues/073%20HasLimits%20and%20HasOffset.rst

5) how to represent Measurables in SECoP
   - discuss further the proposed ideas from last meeting

6) next meeting

7) going through some best practice examples (aka templates)
   - cryomagnet power supply
   - other examples?

1) approval of the minutes
==========================

Previous minutes approved.

2) define order of points
=========================

reshuffled.


3) refinements of specs (issue 65 and reorganize predefined accessibles)
========================================================================

Discussion about the 'maximum set' of the mode parameter in the current secop_specification_draft_wip.rst
Klaus will reword the section.
Klaus points out that in the 'controlled_by' section case where there is no input/output relationship between modules, the current description is confusing.
A more abstract wording seems apropriate.
The remaining points seems to be Ok.

4) next proposal for issue 73
=============================

Enno still dislikes the proposal.
After some discussion, Klaus and Georg propose the sec-node to indicate
a re-read of part of the description only.
This is seems mainly needed to indicated changes of the datainfo.
Agreement on having user settable limits.
Also, the datainfo should always be current.
The only open question is how/when the SEC-node informs the ECS upon which
parts of the description needs a re-read.
One possible way seems to be to define a new qualifier 'changed' listing the components
whose descriptions should be re-read by partial describe requests.
(An ECS may also just re-read the whole description)

5) how to represent Measurables in SECoP
========================================

Enno wonders why the conditions/presets aren't distributed on the corresponding 'channel' devices.
Georg elaborates that conditions may be more complex, so it makes sense to collect all on a single 'main' module controlling all the channels.
Also, a central start/pause/resume/stop can be implemented easier, to avoid race conditions.

Enno points out that either a group could be used to group the channels, or an additional property, listing the module names of the channels, may be used.

Naming the axis should be done via extension of the array datainfo.
While we are at it, the ticks information should be stored there as well.
Nesting of arrays is not a problem, the only question is: is it performance wise better
to transfer a flattened multi dimensional array, or as nested arrays.

Discussion about how to only use a single channel, without a controlling module.
Enno likes the simplicity of having a 'control node' controlling several readable channel modules
representing physical values from the same measurement process.
Having an extra Module for the 'controller' seems reasonable, but having the MeasurementController as a
Feature which can be combined with any MeasurementChannel.
(Otherwise: which is the main value of the MesurementController??)

6) next meeting
===============

As Georg has to leave early, a date for the next meeting was looked for.

2022-11-14 10:30 and 2022-11-16 10:00

7) best practice examples
=========================

moved to next meeting.
