meeting 2022-08-10 (ZOOM)
=========================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Lutz Rossa
(     * Bastian Klemke)
     * Niklas Ekstr√∂m
     * Markus Zolliker
(     * Anders Pettersson)
     * Enrico Faulhaber


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 3


Agenda
------
Agenda:

1) approval of the minutes

2) template description

3) orange type cryostat example

4) finalizing issue 65 (coupled modules, see section "Decision" of https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/issues/065%20handling%20of%20coupled%20modules.rst)

5) further discussion on issue 73 (offset and limits, https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/issues/073%20HasLimits%20and%20HasOffset.rst)

6) next meeting


1) approval of the minutes
++++++++++++++++++++++++++
minutes agreed.

2) template description
+++++++++++++++++++++++
Enno explains the shortcomings of the current proposal.
Niklas points out that it may be helpful if templates could reference other templates.
Enno points out, that the leraves in the template description may need an operation
regarding the value of the actual description: 'must exist', 'must be identical to', 'must be one of....' and 'must contain X'.
come to mind.
A longer discussion goes on.
As a result, it seems helpful to have 'prosa' textual descriptions of templates.
e.g. 'a cryostat template is just a temperature regulator' and
'a temperature regulator is a temperature regulation module, an heater module and
an optional (sample) temperature sensor module' and so on.

Every facility should compile a few prosaic templates for discussion in next meeting.

3) orange type cryostat example
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Lutz presented the latest changes.
After a discussion, some minor discussion points got resolved. (referencing the
SECoP principle that side-effects must be realized before an reply is sent).
Also, it was figured out that 'loss of control' only propogates 'upwards' (away from hw),
never 'downwards' (to hw).

Another good example was spottet: switching from active T_reg to manual needle valve setting.
Lutz will rework the example for the next meeting.

4) finalizing issue 65 (coupled modules)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Markus presented his thoughts.
Essentially everybody agrees.
Markus will rework the wip specification.

5) further discussion on issue 73 (offset and limits)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Essentially the 'standard formula' should be sufficient.
If there are nonlinear functions needed, they are considered to be internal
and the standard formula to be applied 'on top'.
So, 'adjust()' is not required.

Enno definitely would prefer to have 'trustable numbers'.
After a longish discussion it became clear, that the
'targetlimits' parameter essentially makes having to disconnect obsolete, as long
as there is a way to change the 'targetlimits' to the most open setting.
Enno proposes to add a 'resetlimits()' command to do this.

6) next meeting
+++++++++++++++
proposed to happen 2022-09-22 09:30 & 2022-09-26 13:30.

