ISSE SECoP extended video meeting 2022-02-15
============================================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker (PSI) (chair)
     * Enrico Faulhaber (MLZ) (minutes)
     * Kathryn Baker (STFC UKRI)
     * Klaus Kiefer (HZB)
     * Koji Kaneko (J-PARC)
     * Eddy Lelievre-Berna (ILL)
     * Jeff Krzywon (NIST)
     * Stefan Carlson (MAX IV)
     * Hiroyuki Hasemi (CSNS)
     * Artur Domingues (MAX IV)
     * Joachim Schulz (EuXFEL)


.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2


Agenda
------

1) Presentation of the committee (15 min.)

   a) state of the SECoP protocol refinement, report on the work of the core SECoP committee (Markus Zolliker)

   b) state of the software packages (Lutz Rossa, Niklas Ekstr√∂m, Markus Zolliker)

   c) impact of SECoP@HMC project to SECoP (Klaus Kiefer)

2) Input from the facilities

   a) planned projects where a SECoP implementation is intended

   b) is there already a SECoP interface for the experiment control system (instrument control)?

   c) what do you miss or need for implementing SECoP?


Presentations
-------------
Markus quickly presents current state of SECoP.

Markus showed actual state and concept of FRAPPY.

Klaus presented current state of and use case of SHALL.

As the ESS-presenters were missing, this presentation was skipped.

Klaus presents the SECoP@HMC project (funded!) and highlights the connections to the SECoP committee.

The presentations can be found on the SECoP committee forum (ISSE members only)
https://sampleenvironment.org/forums/forum/committee-forums/secop/


Feedback
--------

Eddy reports that due to lack of manpower, no active development of SECoP interfaces is currently done.
He expresses his strong intent to include SECoP interfaces at ILL, especially for PLCs.

Stefan Carlson reports that MAX IV for the time being keeps the position of an observer.
Both Klaus and Markus point out that having equipment wandering between facilities accelerates the process.

Joachim Schulz also stays mostly an observer.

ISIS has a similiar point of view, Kathryn states.

Biggest obstacle seems to be that the initial (time) investment must be argued/defended against a possible later benefit.
As soon as user drag SECoP equipment into facilities the discussions are presumably over.


Information about SECoP Progress / Further Meetings
---------------------------------------------------

Eddy would like to be informed (via e-mail) if 'something on the github changed'.
Also distributing this via the forum seems a nice idea.

Klaus points out, that every member of the committee and all interested ISSE members shall subscribe to the forum to stay updated.
As subscribers are notified automatically, no extra e-mail is needed.

The forum would also be a good place to evaluate a possible collaboration "SECoP on PLCs".

We agree that we should held such extended meetings at least yearly,
the next meeting be at the next International Workshop in Japan.
