meeting 2023-09-26 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Georg Brandl
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Niklas Ekstr√∂m
     * Anders Pettersson

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3

1) approval of the minutes 2023-09-26
=====================================

Previous minutes approved.


2) collect subjects to be discussed for the in persona meeting
==============================================================
(selected from  https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/master/protocol/minutes/pending_tasks.rst )
Alexander presented a tentative schedule.
Klaus proposes several things to be discussed there.
incomplete proposed list:
- the RFC process
- splitting of the spec, webpage
- sample changer, other examples
- how are SECoP structures/values are stored in nexus
- definitions/vocabularies (input may come from FairMAT/LEAPS/LENS/....)
- templates/interface classes/systems/....
- proposed Features/interface classes (HasRamp, HasPID, Measureable, ...)
- naming scheme/Postfixes

Georg proposes to also discuss the proposed definitions of systems/interfaces/...
via yaml files as proposed earlier.

Klaus wants to focus on the Features and Vocabularies (and maybe a little into the interfaces).
Enno shall prepare some part about the postfixes.
Peter will have a look into the rocket sample changer and the orphid compatibility
(which DESY is interested in).

Agreement on the need of having this meeting prepared well, as the last meeting has been a long while ago.

sub-discussion about the need of having a interface class.
Markus dont see the point in having more interface classes, as a collection of Features together with one the
already defined interface classes seems to match all use cases.
Reducing this to a (preferable) small set of additional interface classes seems difficult, if you want to cover 100%
of all devices.

Klaus points out that interface classes are strongly needed for the machine readable/understandable part.
After some discussion, it got was emphasised, that we need to discuss this in the in person meeting.

Markus will recompile the above information and propose an agenda for the meeting which will be distributed via e-mail.

Klaus points out that the template/systems/.. topic id more import then the RFC for daily work with SEcoP.


3) clarification about the `offset` parameter
=============================================

Markus has the question:
   I have a question regarding the HasOffset feature: in an implementation
   at SINQ, a motor has in addition to the value an 'encoder' parameter. This parameter
   might deviate a little from value, as value is derived from the motor steps, which
   has a higher precision than the encoder. How does the ECS know, that the encoder
   parameter needs an offset correction?

Enno proposes to use a second module for the encoder and sync the `offsets`.
Klaus thinks that this combination could also be pointed out by a special interface class.
Markus and Enno essentially agree on having an extra module in this use case.


4) in persona meeting
---------------------

lunch-to-lunch@MLZ-Garching 2023-11-15 to 2023-11-17 with SECoP core focus on the second half

.. note: Anders won't be able join in person.
