meeting 2023-11-15 (in person@MLZ)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Alexander Zaft
     * Georg Brandl
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Geritt Günther
     * Torsten Kracht
     * Jan Kotanski
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Anders Pettersson (via zoom)

     * Moritz (from Daphne project)
     * Oskar (from Daphne project)

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1) 2023-11-15: SECoP@HMC: 1(st) day
===================================


0) greeting and discussion of agenda (A. Zaft)
----------------------------------------------


1) general overview, current status (K. Kiefer)
--------------------------------------------------

- financial status: spent money, money available for this year, NO money can be shifted to next year!
move deliverables WP1 and WP2 to next year

- WP1: what happended, what is missing, milestone
- WP2: shifted to later presentation of mapping to NeXus
- WP3: see below (A. Zaft, P. Wegmann, K. Kiefer)
- WP4: Outreach: Overview over Talks/posters/presentation/trainings...., Todo


2) WP3: recent Activities (A. Zaft)
-----------------------------------

- overview of recent activities
- (short) demo of webclient (more details tomorrow)


3) WP3: SECoP integration into Ophyd (P. Wegmann)
-------------------------------------------------

Peter shows the current status of the Ophyd integration.
Torsten discusses some details based in his experience with Ophyd.v1, where
all signals needed to be class members. Peter has no such problem, as Ophyd.v2
has a way to dynamically create those signals during runtime.

Peter shows some demonstration of a simulated robot via SECoP->Ophyd.v2->Jupyter Notebook.
Code is available here: https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/secop-ophyd.

Future usages at different facilities is discussed.


4) WP3: ROCK-IT (Experiment & Robotics) (K. Kiefer)
---------------------------------------------------

Klaus presents the current status of the support for the (SECoP controlled) sample changing robot used in the ROCK-IT project.

A few valuable lessons were learned and presented.

Klaus summarize the key points of SECoP and the metadata.


5) WP3: Integration into Sardana (J. Kotanski)
----------------------------------------------

Jan presents the current state of his work to integrate SECoP into Sardana.
Torsten starts some discussion about the meaning property, requiring clarification.
Finally, the discussion ends with the question, whether names with leading '_' are valid in Nexus.
(Sardana writes NeXus files.)

Jan continues with his presentation, showing his approach of mapping the SECoP metadata to the various Nexus-tree elements.

Minor discussion about the current and wanted properties of NXsample.
Other possible ways to store SampleEnvironment specific data are also discussed.
Further discussion is postponed to the talk with Sandor Brockhauser tomorrow.

Geritt points out, that some NX* are not well designed concerning sample environment.

Torsten leads the discussion, trying to favour one way on 'how to do it', to propose to the NIAG.

Discussion intensifies.

Klaus sums it up quite nicely:
 - we need more keywords for the meaning of NXSensor, those may be synchronized with the keywords of the SECoP meaning (hint: later it was discussed that we probably will have to map the module property meaning to the allowed names for NXenvironment under NXsensor and to allow for a new parameter property reflecting the physical quantity).
 - we need an additional class to collect all sample environment specific data.
 - location of this new class is not clear, directly below (or inside) NXSample seems Ok.
 - just using a NXCollections seems to be too unspecific.
 - are there synergies with FAIRMAT? (can be discussed tomorrow).

.. note::
    10 min. coffe-break.

Jan continues his presentation.

A parallel discussion starts about the confusion of storing both
SECoP meaning temperature and temperature_regulation into the same NXEnvironment.
This was solved by Jan: only the more relevant one is included.
The second discussion is about deriving the NXSensor meaning propoerty from the unit,
which seems feasible for most known cases, but keeps being a heuristic.

A discussion is started by Jan's use of the name field of NXSensor for
the description.
Geritt points out that adding extra field seems to be allowed.
Klaus points out, that having the description (and possible other information like calibration)
in any data file format (but especially for NeXus) is crucial.

Klaus points out that storing the properties as a NXCollection below NXSensor may solve the problem.

So far, how to store SECoP properties in NeXus is an open question.

Further confusion circles around the vague NeXus definition of NXLog:value, being 'the average value or a setpoint',
as SECoP is much more specific on these.

Enno raises the questions, which part of the SECoP metadata is crucial enough to be stored 'in some way' in NEXUS.
Klaus proposes to dump the descriptive json from SECoP as a string in NEXUS anyway.
Enno points out, the Nexus reader's will expect to find relevant information according to the given Nexus structure
and won't start to interpret a custom JSON entry.
So the relevant information need to be stored according to the given structure, even if this means duplication
pieces of information.
Essentially, we need to check each and every property and see, how it should be stored :(

Peter points out, that his Ophyd integration already looks at the SEC-node description and
create different structures, i.e. structs are decomposed into individual members.

Enno thinks, that thinking about which metadata needs to be stored *first* and then figure out *how*
to store it into NEXUS, may be easier than thinking about how to store *all* metadata.

Peter points out a possible name clash in the current way multiple modules with a meaning are stored to NEXUS.
Jan agrees, that there changes are needed.

After some discussion, an additional SECoP meaning 'temperature_gradient' may have to be added.
(There may be other gradients as well...)

Klaus wraps it up and closes todays session.


2) 2023-11-16: SECoP@HMC: 2(nd) day
===================================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Alexander Zaft
     * Georg Brandl (via zoom)
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Geritt Günther
     * Torsten Kracht
     * Jan Kotanski
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Anders Pettersson (via zoom)


1) SECoP and Nexus, learnings from yesterdays discussion (K. Kiefer)
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Klaus presents an overview of the open tasks and connection points to other projects.

- If and how to integrate other vocabularies/Glossars into SECoP
- scan available Vocabularies / glossaries
- Define extended list of keywords (where missing)
- look for help in HMC/Nexus/....
- Look for ccoperations (FAIRmat, NFDi, LEAPS, LENS,...)
- define own vocabulary/glossar/onthology
- start new project?

content of original slide from Klaus:
To do:
- Decide on general approach if and how to integrate it in SECoP (only for meaning, persistent link, machine readablility, cooperation with others,...)
- Scan available vocabularies / glossaries
- Define extended list of keywords (what is missing)
- Look for help in HMC (e.g. Heike Görzig, projects e.g. MetaCook, https://gitlab.com/metacook/vocpopuli)
- Look for cooperations (FAIRmat, NFDI, LEAPS, LENS,...)
- Define own vocabulary / glossary / ontology?
- Start new project?

Klaus presents an overview of the vocabularies/glossaries he found.
https://fairsharing.org/search?fairsharingRegistry=Standard
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ols4/ontologies
https://rdamsc.bath.ac.uk/scheme-index
https://terminology.tib.eu/ts/ontologies?page=1
https://terminology.nfdi4chem.de/ts/ontologies?page=1
https://bioportal.bioontology.org/
https://www.w3.org/TR/?filter-tr-name=sensor
https://chimad.northwestern.edu

Other things:
http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/Dataset
https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/interoperable-descriptions-observable-property-terminology-wg-i-adopt-wg/wiki/i-adopt

Also have a look an metacook.

Klaus sums up yesterdays discussion about the NeXus integration.
Essentially, we need:

- a new NXSampleEnvironment class
- extend the list of allowed NXEnvironments (-> vocabulary/glossary?)
- extend the list of allowed measurement names in NXSensor (-> vocabulary/glossary?)
- join forces with others (FAIRmat, Daphne,...)

Several other questions which popped up yesterday are discussed.
- where to store SE data, if there is no sample?
- how to store SECoP properties (esp. description)
- which SECoP metadata needs to be stored
- how to handle structured data types (Nexus often only foresees a single float/double)


content of original slides from Klaus:

slide 1 (things we agreed upon)
- SECnode -> NXcollection or new NXsampleenvironment class
- Module -> NXsensor
- 'meaning' -> create NXenvironment entry with NXsensor mapped (points) to module in NXsampleenvironment
- Allow for more NXenvironment entries
- Two different vocabularies/glossaries needed: NXenvironment names and measurement in Nxsensor
- Join forces with others (FAIRmat, Daphne,...)

slide 2 (open questions)
- Additional class for sample environment needed as representative for SECnode? (advantage: visibility/findability, more specific) definition_local?
- New class under NXinstrument or NXsample or on same level?
- Possibly define new parameter property for physical quantities in SECoP?
- How to store SECoP properties in NXsensor? Especially 'description'.
- NXsensor value needs possibly better definition (current: average or setpoint)
- Review mapping of fields in NXenvironment (name, short name, description,...) to reflect module and to avoid duplication when 2 NXenvironments are coming from one SECnode.
- Need for vocabulary/glossary for units in SECoP and NeXus?
- What SECoP metadata is needed to be stored in NeXus?
- Is a leading _ allowed for NeXus names?
- Can 'group' property be helping to structure NeXus sample environment?
- How to store parameters with complex data types in NeXus?
- How to structured datatypes (static metadata) e.g. calibration curves in NeXus?



2) WP4: Outreach (K. Kiefer)
----------------------------

overview of todo's:

- website
- easy access (SECoP book, downloads,...)
- test client
- industry involvement (workshop, lakeshore implementation)
- support new partners (e.g. ROCK-IT)
- unify appearance (i.e. graphs/diagrams/....)


3) webpage: general remarks (A. Zaft)
-------------------------------------

- hosted on github pages
- reacheable via http://www.sampleenvironment.org/secop
- need more visibility, i.e. link from github
- spec needs improved consistency, improve 'look'


4) discussion with Sandor Brockhauser (K. Kiefer)
-------------------------------------------------

Starting from 2.2) (presented and explained by Klaus).

Sandor from FAIRmat presents a nice talk about metadata.

key points:

- metadata needs to be FAIR as well.
- you need a community, metadata can only be FAIR within that community
- thinking about metadat requires thinking about the mechanics of obtaining the data and describing these. (which varies -> community standards)

- data modelling for a community:

  - controlled vocabulary of *concepts*
  - clear relationship of concepts and their meta-concepts
  - cardinality and optionality
  - standard units
  - agreed data format or API:

    - common tools and applications

It's common to propose to NIAG to define new Nexus base classes and application definitions.

Sandor presents the current way to store sample environment data.
Essentially the same problems occurred, as Jan had.
Nexus seems to be more flexible than we thought so far.

Community definitions are a crucial way to extend NEXUS and can be used
already. Correct versioning of the resulting NEXUS file is thus crucial.

Jan and Sandor discuss some of the problems Jan had and Sandor makes proposals on how to solve them.

General agreement and joy....


5) Outreach: webclient/webdemo (A.Zaft)
---------------------------------------

Alexander presents the webclient and the required structure to make it work.

A set of open questions are discussed. Also, a synchronous only REST-like API (SECoP over http)
is proposed.

Discussion is shortened due to time running out.


6) Summary (K. Kiefer)
----------------------

Klaus wraps up the HMC meeting. Unfortunately a few topics had to be shifted to the next meeting due to limited time.

Klaus emphasise that it is important that with Jan a (reviewed) proposal to NIAG is made for required changes to get the relevant metadata into future NEXUS.
This should bee coordinated in short online meetings untils christmas.


.. note:: lunch


3) 2023-11-16: SECoP core meeting (1/2)
=======================================

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Alexander Zaft
     * Georg Brandl (via zoom)
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Anders Pettersson (via zoom)


0) Introduction (M. Zolliker)
-----------------------------

Markus opens with a very good point about discussion culture/approach.
Instead of trying to convince others that oneselfs approach is 'the right one'.
Instead, trying to understand other points of view and extract advantages and disadvantages of different approaches should be discussed to form an even better solution.
All of this seemed it got a little lost over time.

Markus presents different aspects of SECoP, which may touch different parts of SECoP
for different use cases:

- ECS interoperability
- human interoperability
- metadata

We should better distinguish between imperative specification and best practice.

todos:

- split SPECoP specification
- improvement of RFC process
- machine readable extensions

Klaus reviews some of the points with the recent NEXUS information in mind.

Markus proposes to open up, especially in non critical cases, to easen up the
process of extending or adapting SECoP. He wants to distinguish between strict
machine interopability and (weaker) human interoperability.

A small discussion about technically working, but not agreeable 'solutions' as examples.

Further discussion about referring to exisiting glossaries/onthologies,
where to put the refrences, how often, etc.

Agreement on having references to exisiting glossaries.
Agreement also on avoiding duplication.


1) Machine readable specification extension (A. Zaft)
-----------------------------------------------------

Alexander presents the draft discussion starter yaml files
written together with Georg and Enno.
http://github.com/cchndl/SECoP/tree/master/rfcs

The general concept is discussed, also in detail.
General agreement to continue in this discussion,
i.e. describing the various extendable parts in (partly) machine readable
(e.g. yaml) definition files and linking to them via SEC-Node or Module properties.

Markus points out, that the used uri's should not only have a stable link,
but also a stable content. This is agreed upon.
Also more interaction with the metadata communities seem helpful
(HMC/Daphne/FAIRmat).

Enno point out that yaml may be dangerous (see:
https://ruudvanasseldonk.com/2023/01/11/the-yaml-document-from-hell), so
a subset of yaml will be used in these definitions.

Klaus reminds, that the discussed glossary definition mechanism needs to
be able to also work on units, the physical quantity or the meaning property.
Everybody agrees.

It is agreed upon to put a set of yaml definition files covering the spec. at the github repo.


.. note:: coffe break


2) splitting of the specification: status quo (A. Zaft)
-------------------------------------------------------

goal: disentangle syntax and semantics + easier navigation

1) Intro
2) Wire/Transport: Message structure, descriptive data formet
3) Data info/data types
4) "building blocks": messages and intent, descriptive data elements
5) modules: Definition of modules/features/interface Classes
6) Systems: Larger Structures from Modules (e.g. orange cryostat) [WIP]
7) Security [WIP]
8) Future [WIP]

Alexander presents the work he done on splitting the spec.

Details are discussed. As a result, more and bigger examples (as attachment)
seem a good idea. A fresh re-read of the split spec also seems needed to
flesh out some rough edges (and broken links).

After some discussion about the best order of the chapters and the chapter names,
it is agreed, that Alexander will put it on the github in its current form, so everyone can have a look.
Some pictures may need to be added.

3) RFC process (A. Zaft)
------------------------

(The formalized process to extend/modify the spec, not initiated by the committee members....)

Using a github-pullrequest number seems not so great, as it excludes part of the potential applicants.
Instead, using the next free number is discussed.

General agreement.


4) Detector interface (G. Brandl)
---------------------------------

Alexander ad Georg present the current status of Issue76.

A very intense discussion starts about how much hw difference should be reflected
in a multitude of interface classes, which differences should be abstracted away
und what use cases can be reflected with having some optional commands.

Maybe a different abstraction than go()/stop()/clear() is better suited.
Klaus points out that we have a status for 'preparing', so the discussion goes about how to map the different types of hw/states of data aquisition systems onto the status diagram.

Detail discussions about what to put into the value parameter, when and if a value parameter (update) makes sense at all for image type channel.

For the time beeing, 3 Interface classes seem a workable compromise:

- a MeasurementController
- a (non-matrix) MeasurementChannel
- a MatrixDataChannel

The MatrixDataChannel has as a value parameter a cooked-down version of the actual data, which can be retrieved with get_data().
MeasurementChannel, on the other hand, has the measurement result
represented by the value parameter and thus has no get_data().

Another discussion start around the encoding of the image data,
the array ordering, compressing of data and if (and how) the array dimensions/names are to be included in the result of get_data().

No conclusive result.


4) 2023-11-17: SECoP core meeting (2/2)
=======================================
.. sidebar:: participants

     * Alexander Zaft
     * Georg Brandl (via zoom)
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Anders Pettersson (via zoom)


0) Introduction (M. Zolliker)
-----------------------------

1) ROCK-IT sample changer (K. Kiefer)
-------------------------------------

Klaus presents a preliminary version of the foreseen structure of the
ROCK-IT sample system.
Essentially you have a storage for samples, distinct positions
(at the beamline) where a selectable sample can requested to be moved to/from,
a robot doing the sample moving and a sample-preparation system.

A few (minor) aspects are discussed, but there are no objections or changes needed.

As a result, an additional meaning 'sample' or 'sample_id' is needed in SECoP.

.. note:: coffe break


2) discussion about optional items (M. Zolliker)
------------------------------------------------

intensive discussion....

As a result, a heuristic (checking presence/types of selected parameters/commands)
in an ECS may not by avoided in all cases, as having a class based hardware abstraction
contradicts one of the SECoP principles: 'in doubt, the ECS has to do more work to keep the SEC-node simple'.

3) Measurable
-------------

- prepare() (optional) is only preparing the measurable for immediate triggering.
- go() (mandatory) triggers the start of the measurement, or continues a paused measurement (if hold() is implemented). if needed, the measurement is prepared before, if prepare wasn't called in advance.
- hold() (optional) is pausing an active measurement. Can be continued with go()
- stop() (optional) stop/abort an active or paused measurement. A subsequent go() will start a new measurement.

Klaus points out parallels of prepare() with a CryoMagnet.

A discussion with the help of the status diagram and the mode parameter results in:

- having a mode parameter with a 'prepared' entry and a command 'prepare()' is no contradiction,
as the mode parameter is for selecting the 'final idle state after a go()/target change' and prepare() would express the intention
to 'now go to prepared state'.
- setting the mode parameter while the module is BUSY only changes the desired target state
- setting the mode parameter while the module is IDLE, it sets the desired final state and start the required transactions to end there.

4) next meeting
---------------

2023-12-05 9:00-11:00 via zoom

2024-02-21/2024-02-22 lunch-to-lunch @PSI
