meeting 2023-07-05 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Georg Brandl
     * Bastian Klemke

..     * Lutz Rossa
..     * Anders Petterson
..     * Niklas Ekstr√∂m

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3

1) approval of the minutes 2023-06-07 (already on github)
=========================================================

Previous minutes approved.

2) present findings about standardized rfc-like processes
=========================================================

Alexander presents the current status of the rfc style progress process.
Klaus points out, that an automatic final comment period of only 1 month is
a little short for our small group. 2 months seems more appropriate.
Markus and Alexander discuss ways of notifying the members if a new issue/pull
request is brought up.

Apart from some minor cosmetic changes, the text is accepted as is.

2b) clarifaction for ``influences`` property
============================================

Alexander points out that an influences property referencing a parameter of a
different module is tricky to implement in a generic framework, as the classes (defining the properties),
have no clue about the naming and possible existence of any other module, whose working
might be influenced.

(Within the same module there is no problem, however.)

Enno thinks that the extra amount of configuration just to get the influences property right
across modules as a) prone to mistakes and b) scares more people away than people
getting enthralled about the support for synchronous only clients....

Markus proposes to hold back the influences property until a clear use case *needing*
this pops up.

2c) clarifaction for ``enum`` datainfo
======================================

Since it is unspecified in the specification, what should happen if an enum valued
parameter has a value which is not listed as a member in the enum.

A short discuission quickly escalates. However, it seems clear that the direction of data flow from
client to SEC-node is clear, as the SEC node has to reject invalid or non-matching values.
The client should obviously not crash if it gets a value outside the defined range from the datainfo.
Agreement seem to settle that this is a client's problem.
Markus points out that a SEC node may also send an error_update, indicating the bad value
and that it can't be mapped due to missing entries.
Finally it seems a decision of the client implementor, how to proceed in such cases.
Anyhow, it seems a good idea, to mention this in the spec.

3) in persona meeting
=====================

As the last poll didn't find a possible date, Klaus will create a new poll,
probably around KW 45..47.

.. note:: (Peter has to leave.)

4) date for next video meeting
==============================

next zoom-meeting: 2023-09-26 9:00


5) pending issues in finalizing state waiting for approval, already in the draft spec
=====================================================================================

Issue 072: features
+++++++++++++++++++

Agreed. Klaus points put that the spec needs a little re-phrasing
to use feature only in the contect of a SECoP feature.
Also, features should be explained at the same level as interfaces.

Issue 073: HasLimits and HasOffset
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Agreed, though the spec needs a little rewording.
The text in the spec is much shorter (and less explicit/precise) than the text in the issue.

Issue 079: hints for readonly access
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Agreed, though the spec should be reworded to explicit state that it's the
*clients* task to implement/enforce the visibility/readonly access.
The SEC-node is only enforcing the datainfo and the readonly properties.

6) pending issues, not yet in finalizing state
==============================================

Issue 065: handling of coupled submodules
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

(MZ wants to make an addition: optional 'control_off' command, see Issue 65, Appendix)
general agreement about this.

7) any other bussiness
======================

Enno and Georg present some results from this mornings brainstorming
about schemata and templates....

8) postponed issues
===================

- Issue 075: 'check' and 'checked' messages
- Issue 076: Measurable (needs implementation test)
- Issue 077: predefined parameter name pre-/postfixes
- Issue 078: Interacting Modules - use case power supply (interferes with 077)
- Issue 080: issues with software ramp (setpoint aspect not yet discussed)
- Issue 081: dynamic descriptive data

