meeting 2023-09-26 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Niklas EckstrÃ¶m
     * Anders Petterson

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3

1) approval of the minutes 2023-07-05 (already on github)
=========================================================

Previous minutes approved.


2) notes about standardized rfc-like processes
===============================================

Markus notes that once having moved the issues on github, it is really usefull
to activate the notifications!

Alexander wants to prepare something for the in-person meeting.

Klaus notes that it would be good to have it at the in-person meeting,
especially since it is also relevant to the HMC process.


3) pending issues for final decision
====================================


3a) Issue 072: features
----------------------

Klaus rewrote parts to emphasise what kind of feature is referred to.
General agreement, Issues will be closed.


3b) Issue 073: HasOffset
------------------------

Klaus rewrote the part in the specification to clarify it.
General agreement, Issues will be closed.

Markus proposes to leave of the double quotes on the keywords in the
specification, as they are marked anyway already.
General agreement.

Enno wonders if the time is ready for a Secop Version 1.1.
Markus points out that there was the decision to restructure the specification
differently first.
Alexander ander Peter will have a look at it.


3c) Issue 079: hints for readonly access
----------------------------------------

Klaus reworded it.
General agreement, Issues will be closed.


3d) Issue 065: coupled submodules ('control_off' command)
---------------------------------------------------------

Markus did some wording for the 'control_off' command, to be approved.

Klaus ponders about whether a more condensed or a more explicit style could fit better.

Enno points out a minor point for clarification.
Klaus fixes it online.


4) other issues
===============

4a) automated sample changer
----------------------------

Klaus presents some slides about the approach to control a sample changing robot
via SECoP from a different project.
Enno points out that some of the presented approaches would be easier if proper
interface classes are defined beforehand.
Also, stopping at 'Drivable + some features' is not to be preferred.
Alexander has some questions about the storage system answered by Klaus.


4b) ramping specifics / Issue 80
--------------------------------

Markus wants to clarify about the handling of ramping from a different starting
point. After some discussion Enno points out that this can be handled
be switching to 'use no ramp', setting the starting setpoint, re-enabling the ramp
and then set the final target for the ramp.

Klaus points out that this is currently not covered in all cases
(e.g. magnets don't have a setpoint yet).

After some discussion, having a feature `has_ramp` with a `ramp` parameter to
set the ramp speed, a `ramp_enable` parameter to en-/disable the use of the ramp
and a `setpoint` parameter (with the previously defined behaviour) would solve
the problem.

As always, a custom command could be implemented to combine the above sequence
in one command.

Markus points out that there are magnet controllers which can ramp, but have no
way to disable the ramp. After some discussion, the majority prefers having a
constant `ramp_enable` parameter (ramp is always enabled) instead of omitting the
parameter, as it is more explicit.

Markus points out that a proposal needs to be written for the `has_ramp` feature.


4c) Issue 75: New Messages `check` and `checked`
------------------------------------------------

Markus and Enno agreed that implementing this in Frappy is feasible.
Anders points out that this puts a lot of stress on simpler SEC-nodes.
Klaus points out, that the functionality is actually needed, e.g. for a vector
magnet.

Enno proposes to add a command `target_check` to check a given value for validity.
This wouldn't impose an implementation hurdle on SEC-nodes not needing this.
This mechanic could also be extended for other parameters as well (see Issue 77).

Anders likes this proposal, as it seems to be cleaner.

Enno will rewrite Issue 75 to include the result of this discussion.

4d) Issue 77: predefined parameter name postfixes
-------------------------------------------------

Needs to be extended to include the '*_check' postfix from 4c).

Also, should be suffix or postfix?

After a short discussion, the postfix version is preferred.

Markus ponders whether _limit should stay, as it can be replaced with
having _min and _max. Anders prefers this.
-> _limits is going to be removed.

Markus raises the question about enabling a parameter (e.g. a ramp).
_used or _active seem inferior to _on.

After some more discussion, the idea of keeping target_check as a parameter
(i.e. remembering the value) could be worked into some `simulation light`.

more thinking seems needed here...


5) list of pending tasks
========================

 - closing of finalized issues:
   Markus

 - restructuring the spec for v1.1:
   Alexander and Peter

 - write a proposal for `has_ramp`:
   Enno

 - rewrite issue 75/77
   Enno


6) in persona meeting
---------------------

Alexander is collecting the E-Mail addresses of all participants.

7) date for next video meeting
------------------------------
2023-10-24 9:00 via zoom
