meeting 2023-06-07 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Anders Petterson
     * Niklas Ekstr√∂m
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Bastian Klemke

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 3


Agenda
======

1) approval of the minutes 2023-05-02 (already on github)

2) if ready: present findings about standardized rfc-like processes
   (Klaus, Georg, Alexander)

3) pending issues. We do not need to handle all of them, this is just a todo list:

   Issues in finalizing state waiting for approval, already in the draft spec:

   - Issue 065: handling of coupled submodules
     (MZ wants to make a change: control_active may be readonly=True, see Issue 65, Appendix)
   - Issue 072: features
   - Issue 073: HasOffset
   - Issue 079: hints for readonly access


   Issues in finalizing state, waiting for a precise wording:

   - Issue 067: ctrlpars
     (MZ wants to drop it or change to a predefined group 'ctrlpars')
     If we keep it: somebody (not MZ) has to do the precise wording
   - Issue 069: optional structs (wording done in issue, but not yet updated draft spec)
     (MZ: optional structs should only be allowed as command argument)


   Issues in proposed state:

   - Issue 075: 'check' and 'checked' messages
     (MZ: no priority)
   - Issue 076: Mesurable (needs implementation test)
   - Issue 077: predefined parameter name pre-/postfixes
   - Issue 078: Interacting Modules - use case power supply (interferes with 077)


   New Issue 080: issues with software ramp (by MZ)

4) in persona meeting

5) date for next video meeting

1) approval of the minutes
==========================

Previous minutes approved.

2) present findings about standardized rfc-like processes
=========================================================

Peter found no principal problems integrating SECoP into Orphid.
Structs, however, seem to be not directly supported in Orphid.

Alexander presents the current understanding of rfc-like processes.
We need to adopt our understanding and handling of our issues.
Main points seems the limited time for discussion and
write access for others (to comment or create new entries).
Also we need to formalise the process and document it better!
Alexander also proposes a template for new issues.

(Lutz has to leave.)

Klaus agrees on the need of a more formalised process for new issues.
Markus agrees on this as well. Nobody objects.

A minor discussion about the details of the proposed pull-requests and github-issues
seems to solves many open questions.

Klaus reminds all that a reworked process should not have a too big barrier
for non-developers.
Alexander points out that it will be difficult anyway to motivate people
to file issues if they don't use github at all.
Markus and Klaus agree on having contact email adressess prominently visible,
so that any one can easily write an email.

3) pending issues in finalizing state waiting for approval, already in the draft spec
=====================================================================================

Issue 065: handling of coupled submodules
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Markus has stumbled upon a case where a Temperature controller would need to
be able to deactivate its control over the heater, but the hardware doesn't even
allow to read the actual heater value, so setting a new target to the heater is
not possible. Markus therefore proposes to optionally allow
`control_active' to be writable to disable the temperature controller.

Enno strongly dislikes the idea of making an indicative parameter writable.
The use case is clear, however, a different way needs to be found.

(Anders has to leave.)
(Peter has to leave as well.)

Enno points out, that a similiar mechanism may be needed to en-/disable the
output drivers of an motor driver.

Issue 072: features
+++++++++++++++++++

postponed

Issue 073: HasOffset
++++++++++++++++++++

postponed

Issue 079: hints for readonly access
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

postponed


3) pending issues in finalizing state, waiting for a precise wording
====================================================================

Issue 067: ctrlpars
+++++++++++++++++++

Markus presents the case of a bath thermostat which actually
has two sets of pid parameters: one for cooling, one for heating.
Klaus proposes to use p_heat, p_cool, d_heat and so on in the ctrlpars struct.

Issue 069: optional structs
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

postponed

3) pending issues in proposed state
===================================

Issue 075: 'check' and 'checked' messages
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

postponed

Issue 076: Mesurable (needs implementation test)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

postponed

Issue 077: predefined parameter name pre-/postfixes
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

postponed

Issue 078: Interacting Modules - use case power supply (interferes with 077)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

postponed

3) New Issues
=============

081: dynamic descriptive data
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Enno thinks that the idea is elegant, but may need more thinking to get the
corner cases right.
Klaus questions the distinction to the naming convention with '_max'.
Markus points out that e.g. several limits or units could be set with one
additional parameter in a synchronised way.
Enno points out that, especially for the unit case, more thinking about the implications needs to done,
as the unit is not literally the same for all parameters (think of 'speed' for example).

080: issues with software ramp (by MZ)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Markus presents his use case. The main problem seems to infer if the
temperature aoutput was actively regulating or not.
Enno proposes to use the 'control_active' indicator and if this is not present,
you have to assume, that control is always active.
As a result of a longer discussion, a temperature controller which can be inactive
must have a 'control_active' indicator.
Klaus points out that this is implicitly already in the spec.
All agree to have this more explicit.

4) in persona meeting
=====================

Markus will send a doodle around

5) date for next video meeting
==============================

next zoom-meeting: 2023-07-05 (5(th) of July) at 14:00
