meeting 2022-02-14 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Niklas Ekström

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 3


Agenda
------

Agenda:

1) approval of the minutes (16th/17th January 2023)

2) contribution to WP1 of the SECoP@HMC project
   - what should we present
   - any issues to discuss with other workpackages?

3) SECoP issues https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/tree/master/issues

   - issue 76: Interface for Measurable hardware (are we ready for an agreement?)
   - issue 77: predefined parameter name prefixes (change to postfix - further discussion needed?)
   - issue 78: Interacting Modules - use case power supply ('_limit' postfix instead of 'max_' prefix)
   - issue 79: hints for readonly access (refined proposal)

4) best practice examples

5) aob

6) next meeting


1a) approval of the minutes
==========================

Previous minutes approved.

1b) workshop next week @HZB
===========================

Klaus addresses some points for preparation.

1c) meeting this week @DESY
===========================

Markus queries the focus of the meeting. Klaus gives a few hints.

2) contribution to WP1 of the SECoP@HMC project
===============================================

Klaus elaborate about the expectations: what does SECoP already offer and
what is still missing from the point of view of the HMC folks.
Klaus is going to prepare some presentation

3a) SECoP issue 76: Interface for Measurable hardware
=====================================================

Klaus sees no real problem. Details are going to be discussed later, as Georg is not present.

3b) SECoP issue 77: predefined parameter name prefixes
======================================================

Enno likes the prefix version more. Klaus prefers the postfix version.
Markus too. Klaus propose to use '_enable' instead of '_enabled'.

Minor discussion about meaning und useage of '_limit', '_max' and '_min' for the power supply case.
Klaus strongly prefers a strong coupling of postfix and meaning and
doesn't want to re-use a postfix for a distinct, yet similar meaning.

Markus ponders, how an ECS may behave if it finds a 'current_max', but no 'current' parameter.
Enno suggests that an ECS should not complain about this, but just display 'current_max' as yet another parameter.
Klaus points out that we need a clearer definition of what an underscored parameter name means.
Markus thinks that these are rather 'patterns', which are to be used in a more general way.
Markus elaborates about the distinction between 'limits' (giving both lower and upper limit) and
'limit', which limits the absolute value.
Enno sugests to not use both 'limit' and 'limits' as they are too close linguistically.
Klaus and Markus, after some discussion, seem to agree to drop 'limits' and instead prefer
'min' + 'max', i. e. 2 parameters.

Klaus sums it up:
- we go for postfix (suffix) notation
- we use '_enable' instead of '_use'/'_used'/'_enabled' to en-/disable functionalities
- restricting values works with '_min' and '_max'

Power supply examples need to be rewritten to include above agreements.

3c) SECoP issue 78: Interacting Modules
=======================================

postponed due

3d) SECoP issue 79: hints for readonly access
=============================================

Markus points out that the current proposal might indicate a write accerss on a readonly parameter.
A discussions starts on how to treat the situation.
Ennos suggests to define it like the file access-rights on linux.
Markus would like to leave out the expert setting, as they should always have full access.
Enno disagrees on these.
After more discussion, Klaus proposes to use a string analog to linux, i.e. '[-rw][-rw][-rw]'
where each position stands for one of the 'expert'/'advanced'/'user' roles and
'-' means no access (i.e. invisible), 'r' means readonly access, 'w' means full (read+write) access.
Of course, the visibility can not allow writes on a readonly parameter, i.e. the access rights need
to be consistend with the readonly property, which should be made sure by the framework.

Markus discusses about the best practice. The SEC-node should only declare consistent settings.
Enno points out that in case of inheriting access levels, the stronger restriction should always win.

4) best practice examples
=========================

postponed due to time running out


5) next meeting
===============

to be defined in the berlin meeting. will be updated here later.
