meeting 2022-05-02 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Georg Brandl
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Lutz Rossa
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Anders Petersson
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Enrico Faulhaber

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 3


Agenda
------

1) approval of the minutes 14. Feb. 2023

2) split specification in a core part (protocol + other basic things) and a 'best practice' part
   and discuss a possible adaption the approval process for the specification

3) SECoP Issues: https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/tree/master/issues
   - issue 79: hints for readonly access. decide about the proposal in the draft ("visibility" in modules and accessible)
   - issue 76: Interface for Measurable hardware (are we ready for an agreement?)
   - issue 77: prefixes / postfixes: a precise specification test has to be written

4) aob

5) next meeting

Minutes
-------

1)  approval of the minutes 14. Feb. 2023
=========================================

The minutes were approved.

2) spec and approval process
============================

Markus Zolliker presents suggestions for next steps.

   - key aspects of secop and their relevance to ecs and human operators
   - splitting specification into 3:
      1. protocol (on-wire messages)
      2. core: predefined props/params
      3. meaning/best-pracices etc.
   - change approval process
     - public input (issues under discussion, use as "unstable" features before acceptance)

Klaus Kiefer notes that machine readability would have to be important to consider within the context of unstable features
discussion about central repository for machine readable best practices
general agreement for splitting specification in different parts, specifics differ

discussion points:

   - question about the difference between accepted templates and collections of modules per-convention
   - open suggestion list, awaiting approval of committee
   - leaving in-progress suggestions after standardisation invites fracturing of device definitions
   - standardized way of naming things
   - do not have it completely open
   - rfc processes -> have a look into it, query with HMC/NEXUS

3a) issue 79
============

- omit implicitly defined visibility (e.g. inherit from module)
- final approval set for the next meeting

3b) issue 76
============

- postponed to wait for more feedback from implementors

3c) issue 77
============

- Enrico Faulhaber joined

- precise specification needed before approval
- general idea:
   - postfix and prefix differ on parameter
   - param_postfix is reference to param

4) aob
======

discussion about secnode with parameter that changes unit

   - application: "Zugbrücke"/stress-rig
   - different modes regulating by different parameters,
   - disagreement about the solution
   - case which may have the same problem: multimeter
   - compatibility to nexus etc. would no longer be guaranteed
   - partial updates of structs raised as a possiblity, is rejected

discussion is closed for the day
proposal to move this issue to best-practice disscussion
Anders notes risk of best-practice discussion dissolving into core-team discussions

a dedicated best-practice discussion may be needed

5) next meeting
===============

- present findings about standardized rfc-like processes (Klaus, Georg, Alexander)
- final approval of issue 79
- The next meeting will take place on 07.06.2023 14:00

The meeting concluded at 15:16.
