meeting 2024-06-17(ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Niklas EkstrÃ¶m

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


Opening
=======

Markus ponders whether it may make sense to collect contributions for a SECoP
side-kick during the next ISSE workshop in Lund.
Klaus likes that idea very much.


1) approval of the minutes 2024-04-26
=====================================

approved.


2) finalise check/checked message
=================================

Discussion about the pull request from Peter:
https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/pull/10/commits/e547616678225a10b36756e962628bb743e47f39

Klaus found a few minor problems (links not working, typos, etc.) during checking the docu.
-> needs rework. The ``check``/``checked`` messages should be 'in parallel' to ``change``/``changed``.
Enno agrees.
Also, there should be a link from the ``checkable`` property to the ``check``/``checked`` messages section.
(the other direction is already present.)
Klaus raises the question, if ``check`` could also be applied to commands (i.e. instead of ``do``),
to check the argument. Nobody objects.

Markus wonders if older SEC-nodes should reply with ``NoImplemented`` instead of ``ProtocolError`` upon a ``check`` message.
Alex + Enno disagrees with this as it only increase complexity, without gaining anything.

Klaus will contact Peter, who will adapt the change.


3) new version of meaning
=========================

Klaus presents his (reworked) proposal.

excerpt:

.. code-block::

    "meaning": {
        "key": "synthesis temperature",
        "link": "https://w3id.org/nfdi4cat/voc4cat_0000051",
        "function": "temperature_regulation",
        "importance": 20,
        "belongs_to": "sample"
    },

Agreement about using links. However, the meaning of all fields is not 100% clear.
Also, if multiple entries are present: how to determine *the* sample temperature?
There will be another meeting next week with HMC people, which hopefully clarifies the situation.
The result will be re-discussed in one of the next SECoP meetings.

4) Alexander presents the current state of the templating proposal
==================================================================

There are a few issues to be solved when declaring derived datatypes.
Instead of the current, essential only human readable, form, a more machine friendly format
is needed. And instead if defining all fields, references (like for the unit) to other definitions
may be needed.
Klaus points out, that like the SECoP-datainfo types, one could only specify the known elements and leave everything off.
Markus points out, that this may be insufficient for enums.
This could be solved by defining the required minimal set if the definition and allow more in real world implementations.
Enno agrees on this.

As we can have more than one system, the instance need to be named. Also, a module may be
belong to more than one system instance.
Conclusion: the listing/mapping needs to be done on the SEC-node (as a property).


5) implementation question
==========================

During review of Frappy code the question came up how to model a Drivable which can not be stopped.
Example: a pump, which needs time to start, with only two stable states 'off' and 'running'.
Possible solutions:

a) Drivable, but 'stop' is a no-op
b) Writable with an added BUSY status (would need some precision in the specs)
c) Drivable without 'stop' command (not strictly backwards compatible)
d) introduce a class between Writable and Drivable
e) like (a), but mark stop with visibility "---". this would allow 'do <module>:stop'
   without error message, but tell the ECS to hide the stop command.

After some discussion it is clear, that:

- declaring a BUSY state on any module (which has a status) is not really a problem,
  as this is covered by the extensibility mechanism
- the mechanism of triggering a BUSY state is also covered, by the 'side-effects must be realized
  before the reply' handshake
- a rewording may be in order to clarify the expected behaviour.

Klaus thinks, that having a Writable with a BUSY status (and which follows the handshake)
is not really a problem.
Enno favours version b). There are no objections.

Klaus proposes to see modules as Drivable if they have intermediate values, whereas
Writables are either the old or the new value.
Markus points out that Writables may have intermediate values, but can't stay there.
(Hence no ``stop()``.)

Markus tries to make a pull-request for this clarification.


6) Any other items?
===================

- Markus has seen, that the new 'visibility' spec is not yet in the 'split' specification.
- Klaus has to write a Deliverable and will check back for some details.


7) Date of next meeting
=======================

1.7/2.7 in Dresden in persona, partially with remote access.


8) Date of next video meeting
=============================

11(th) of September, 13:30 via zoom.
