meeting 2024-03-13 (in person@PSI)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Alexander Zaft
     * Georg Brandl
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Niklas Eckström
     * Anders Pettersson


.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1) 2024-03-13 lunch to dinner
=============================

1) Opening and Agenda (Markus)
------------------------------

Opening (Marek Bartkowiak).
SECoP seems to be known be few communities by now, which is good.

Agenda (presented by Markus):

- RFC Procedure / gitlab pull requests (Alex)
- Sample changer / Galvanostat implementation (Klaus / Georg)
- outsource vocabularies, ontologies (Klaus, anybody?)

Further topics (depending on progress):

- SECoP implementation on a µC (Georg)
- status of new website (Peter/Alex) (incl. pictures?)
- Issue 75 target checks (Peter)
- best practice examples (all)
- other open issues
- interface classes?


1) Sample changer (Klaus)
-------------------------

Klaus presents the Robotic Sample Changer interface and the abstraction
and generalisation which comes with it.
The lessons learned from several discussions with distinct communities
gave some valuable insights on what to modify (and what to keep) in SECoP.
Klaus then presents a proposal for the next iteration of the api for the
sample changer.
One of the problems presented is that, sometimes, the actual sample ID
is known only after some measurement (e.g. by an RFID scanner).
Enno propses to use a temporary ID until the right one is used.
Klaus points aut, that then the target would contain the temporary ID,
whereas value would jump to the real ID.
Enno states, that there is no principal problem for target to be corrected to
the real ID.
Klaus and Markus discuss with the result that there are two distinct use cases,
which can't be joined with such an approach.
After more brainstorming, Enno points out, that the Idea presented by Marek
earlier, to uses a 'sample holder id' for selecting/moving areound a sample and
an 'sample id' as a property connected to that sample.
The 'sample id' is allowed to be set a soon as it is known.
This avoids the target change problem.
An additional Readable module may provide the `sample id` after measuring it
on the scpecified `sample holder id`.

Some discussion starts about where to store the mapping(s) and how many are there.
Markus tries to clarify by presenting two essential use cases:

1) we know the sample id's and their mapping to the sample holder id's in advance
2) The sample id is known only after some measurement is done,
   a selection of the used sample holder id's still needs to be done.

Further discussion goes on.

Klaus tries to summarize:

- the ECS needs to know the mapping between sample holder id and sample id
- the ECS needs to know which sample holder id's are available (for measurements).

After some confusion cleared, it seems, we need to deal with two mappings:

- sample position id/tray id to sample holder id  (answering which sample holder
  is placed were)
- sample holder id to sample id (which sample is mounted at which sample holder)

The first needs to be handled by the SEC node, the second by the ECS.

So the sample changer works with sample holder id's or sample position/tray id's.
There is even no need to use distinct namespaces.


2) Sample changer / Galvanostat implementation (Klaus)
------------------------------------------------------

Klaus presents the problems and challenges found during implementation a sec
node for a potentiostat. Since a potentiostat is like a cc/cv powersupply with
some automation included and is used in different modes it seems not trivial to
implement an api on it in SECoP.
The spectroscopy mode (and it's measurements) should probably be handled by an
additional module.
Klaus presented the final proposal which seems to be accepted by everyone after
some minor points got discussed.
Enno points out that the number of cycles wanted/achieved needs to be available
as well.
Alex and Georg point out that this should then be a MeasurementChannel
controlled by the (Potentiostat)Controller.

Agreement on this.


small break
-----------

3) outsource vocabularies, ontologies (Klaus)
---------------------------------------------

Klaus presents to methods to refer to ontologies:

- referring to a specific entry
- referring to the whole ontology

Open questions: Which way do we want? How to implement it?
What about backwards compatibility?
How to resolve overlapping definitions in multiple distinct ontologies.

It seems preferable to use as few references as possible.
Markus points out, that at least for proxying SEC-nodes, the
definitions/references should probably be on the module level.

Enno points out some open questions:

- what if the content of an ontology changes?
   -> a new link is required, i.e. the content of the references are assumed
   to be constant
- what if a name collision occurs between a generic and a specific definition?
   -> the more specific definition wins
- what about name collisions between multiple generic ontologies occurs?
   -> forbidden, since foreseeable. same answer for multiple specific references.

Anders wonders if referencing an ontology is mandatory or optional.

Markus proposes to have a default ontology included in the SECoP specification
which is automatically used in places where there is no explicit reference in
the descriptive data.

Klaus presents several possible implementations (version 1abcd/2abcd...).
Georg points out that it is better to have the referenced 'keyword' as an part
of the uri (possible after a '#' sign, like in other uri based systems).
Markus proposes version 1e), having a references entry on the SEC-node^nad or
on the module (if necessary), which contains entries referenced from properties
in the descriptive data and map those entries to specific ontology entries.

A discussion starts on how to handle the ontology references for other quantities
as well. Markus would want to have speaking names (like 'electric_field') which
could potentially occur with distinct meanings (like in the meaning entry and in
the quantity property).
Enno proposes to either use the link directly wherever a reference is needed
or to uses double mapping for the references, with first level referring to the
module property where the meaning of the entry needs a reference.

Further, intense discussion goes on.
One intermediary result is that, the meaning entries should probably be a list,
listing several compatible specific definitions. Also, one of the entries
currently defined in the SECoP specification is referenced without a link,
the default SECoP ontology is implicitly assumed.
And explicitly referring the default SECoP ontology must be treated identical to
relying on the fallback of just specifying the keyword.

Klaus restates that we effectively are discussing two things:

- a mark for the ECS that som module represent a sample centric measurement value
- a definition on that the physical quantity is.

The first part is done by putting stuff below the 'meaning' module property,
the other by the content of this entry. Which is supposed to be able to refer
to an ontology entry.


Enno raises the question on which places we might need/want reference an
ontology entry.

Georg raises the question the question if we can't put the reference always as
a parameter property.
Markus points out that this doesn't work for unit.

More discussion. Sadly, the topic seems to be complex.

It seems we need to distinguish at least 3 properties:

- a flag: this is a sample centric entry? (Yes/No)
- what is it (helium level?)
- which physical quantity is it? (percent)

Enno points out that the meaning 'temperature_regulation' is kind of
superfluous, as this could be identified by a meaning 'sample_temperature' with
slightly lower priority and being at least a Drivable.

Final agreement on keeping the meaning as defined for ECS functionality detection
with entries from a SCEoP maintained vocabulary.
Add a property to mark modules as sample-centric.
Add properties for referring ontologies. Whether specific or generic seems unclear atm.

Really, really, ernest proposal to rename SECoP to ScECoP or SECoup.


4) SECoP implementation on a µC (Georg)
---------------------------------------

Georg presents his implementation of SECoP in rust on a raspberrypi pico with
wiznet ethernet expansion (https://github.com/birkenfeld/microSECoP-rp2040-w5000).
The lack of a RTC on the pic is circumvented by contacted a DHCP provided
NTP server.
The rust library/framework (https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/microSECoP)
written by Georg allows to implement the specific modules without much effort
as most of the (meta) data handling is automated away.
Everybody cheers Georg for this gorgeous work called microSECoP.
Klaus seems very interested and cheers Georg to extend this further, make it
accessible and to connect to other people starting with SECoP on Arduino as well.

Session closed.


2) 2024-03-14 breakfast to lunch
================================

Summary of yesterday and agenda of today given by Markus.


1) RFC Procedure / gitlab pull requests (Alex)
----------------------------------------------

Alexander gives an overview (+ tutorial) on how the github
fork/change/pull-request cycle works with some minor demo changes.
Working with pull-requests, discussing things on pull requests and finally
merging it into the main repository are covered as well.


2) Issue 75 target checks (Peter)
---------------------------------

Peter presents the current state of the Issue.
The pros and cons of the two proposed variants are discussed.
The explicit target_check commands are preferred over the
check/checked messages.
Peter presents another proposal, which again introduces new messages.
Enno dislikes the introduction of another message type and asks for the reasoning.
Klaus tries to explain.
An intense discussion start about the pros and cons of an extra message versus
using an explicitly declared command for each parameter supporting checks.
Niklas wonders if it is possible to specify a way in the descriptive data
for the ecs to calculate whether a value is value or not.
This is quickly rejected to to the huge complex
Georg queries the actual use case(s).
It becomes clear, that anything more complex than 'just check the value NOW for
the current configuration' is not going to be implemented soon.
After more discussion it becomes clear, that essentially both ways have no big
difference when it comes for implementing it in frameworks or to use it in a client.
Since there are no hard facts against the additional message,
other than Enno's feelings, and the majority prefers to have the checks as an extra message,
the checked message is going to be introduced.
The result of check as well as error_check should be synchronized with changed/error_change.
if the 'closest_value' is going to be a qualifier, it needs adaptions in the specifiactions
and needs to be used in the error_change message as well.
Enno agrees on a new message for 'check' and suggests to move the 'closest_value'
out of the qualifier, before the qualifier in the error report.


3) status of new website (Peter/Alex)
-------------------------------------

Peter presents some of the schematics/graphics he created to spice up the
documentation.
Some minor comments from the audience for reworking were noted instantly be peter
for reworking the graphics.
Some suggestions for more graphics include sequence diagrams for some use cases.


4) other open issues
--------------------

- Logos should be accessible by the github site.
- status of the self describing interface_classes/systems (rfc???)
- Klaus ponders if a non-Drivable could be BUSY. nobody sees a reason why not.
  Markus wonders if it would be helpful to distinguish a BUSY-due-to-target-change
  form the other possible BUSY's. Nobody finds a use case.
  The discussion extends a little, but must be shortened due to time running out.
- Outreach. discussion about a possible SECoP users meeting/hackathon/....

5) best practice examples (all)
-------------------------------

skipped.


6) interface classes?
---------------------

skipped. again.


3) Date of next video meeting
=============================

2024-04-26 9:00-11:00 via zoom

4) closing
==========

closing words by Markus.
