meeting 2024-02-20(ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Georg Brandl
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Niklas Eckstr√∂m


.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3

1) approval of the minutes from 2023-01-17
==========================================

approved.


2) Measurable (defining the data info for big arrays, Georg)
============================================================

Georg made a pull request. The pull request is presented and the mechanics
behind pull requests are explained.
The pull request itself is discussed.
The proposed names for the additional datainfo elements are discussed.
Several options are discussed, some of them rejected, others agreed upon.
Georg emphasises the way the flattened matrix data is reshaped into a matrix.
I.e. the fastest running index is listed first.
Maybe the description needs a minor rewording.

Enno raises the question of data compression.
After a short discussion the conclusion is that at a later point a compression
hint may be added to the datainfo. Until then, the data is transferred uncompressed.
(basic idea is to keep the sec-node simple, so it either does no compression at
all, or is always using the same one. Also compression is not to optimize each
and every data transfer, i.e. it is not supposed to adapt to the data.
Instead compression support is intended for reducing the average data transfer size.)

Also, the programmers convention of marking commands with a trailing pair of brackets
(like ``get_data()``) should not be used solely in the specification.
Georg points out, that with some custom extension and the proper tags within the raw
text, the rendering can be customized as required by different audiences.
Github does only the basic rendering though....


2b) (Measurable)Controller
==========================

Klaus reports about his latest talk at XXXX about SECoP and the feedback he received.
As a result he ponders, if the ``MeasureableController`` can be a more generic thing.
In the discussion, nothing speaks against it.
Another point is the wish to include the elapsed time as part of the ``Controller``.
Which can be done in the proposed way how ``MeasurableChannel`` and
``MeasureableController`` can be fused. Georg proposes to represent the elapsed
time by giving either two parameters or a tuple (``current time``, ``total time``).
Both units could also be steps to completion or percentage done, however the
SECnode sees fit.

Georg will rework the pull request to reflect to agreed upon changes.


3) Introduction for pull requests for proposing spec changes (Alex)
===================================================================

The current state (as a pull request) is shortly presented, however,
further discussion and decision is postponed to the f2f meeting @PSI.


4) Agenda for the in persona meeting 2024-03-13/14
==================================================

- pictures for the SECoP Website/Spec (Peter/Alex)
- galvanostat implementation (Controller, Voltage, Current,...). (Klaus/Georg)
- outsource vocabularies, ontologies (Klaus, anybody?)
- best practice examples (all)
- new website (Alex)
- interface classes?
- open issues
- Issue 75: check(ed)

minor sub discussion about the state/need for Issue 75.

Discussion about meeting details: travel, accommodation, etc....


5) Date of next meeting(s)
==========================

in persona meeting 2024-03-13/14 at PSI
