meeting 2024-04-26 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Peter Wegmann
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Niklas Ekstr√∂m


.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1) approval of the minutes 2024-03-13/14
=========================================

Previous minutes approved.

2) check/checked message:
=========================

Klaus proposes to split the ProtocolError to differentiate the cases where a
parameter is not checkable vs the check message not being implemented.

Markus proposes to use the error reason for that.

The pull request is discussed.

There is general agreement that introducing the 'check' message is good, the
discussion about the error which is returned has to be done in a new step.

It was noticed, that the email notifications from GitHub were not received by
everyone, and that everyone has to check theirs settings.


3) Syntax of meaning/quantity and links to glossaries
=====================================================

Klaus presents his suggestion for meaning and quantity
------------------------------------------------------

- There should be a global definition of units.

Quantity
~~~~~~~~

- quantity as a parameter property with three keys: key, link and importance
- link and key may be optional, this has to be discussed

Meaning
~~~~~~~

- meaning should be used for capability detection 'this is a temperature regulator'
- tuple of name and importance
- discussion is needed, if a secop vocabulary should be build (or just a list)
  and if there should be non-sample related modules

Samplemodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- flag for sample-related modules
- indication to data-storage
- how to differentiate multiple modules with the same quantity?

Discussion
----------

Markus would like to keep the number of properties small.
Meaning may be extended with keys such as 'sample-related' or similar

It is proposed that the links should be saved in a node-wide index.
There is a discussion about whether the index should be the only way or an
additional option.

Peter mentions that there was already a discussion previously and there is a
problem with composing SECNodes. So the index should be placed on the module.

The question whether it would not be preferrable to not factor out important
parameters in there own modules is discussed. If it is important enough to
store, should it be its own module?

The link to the ontology and the key may be split up.

There is a proposal to extend quantity as a module or parameter property by
meaning and belongs_to (replacing samplemodule), with all keys optional.

The discussion will be continued at the next meeting.

4) Date of next video meeting
=============================

Proposed 2024-05-29 09:00-10:00
