meeting 2025-09-17 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Niklas EkstrÃ¶m
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Peter Braun
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Georg Brandl

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1) discussion about in person meeting
=====================================

Niklas will be the local organiser.
Seminar rooms for the first day are booked, there seems to be no problem to book more.

Several constraints regarding the date are discussed.
As a result, the date is now fixed wednesday 15.oct around 14:00 until friday 17.oct around lunch time.
For better coordination, all should attendees should communicate their planned arrival and departure dates.

Possible topics:

- Machine readable spec definition (GB)
- Low-level introduction: how to get new people on board (KK)
- Finalize web page: tutorials/software/new users sections (KK)
- Create a SECoP "newsletter"? Need to make users aware of new features
  since ISSE is not too active right now (KK)
- adaption of SECoP to other communication ways (tango/mqtt/epics)
- next steps/directions

Georg thinks that may be good to keep the agenda rather loose, so
its easier to do some brainstorming.
Priority is to finish up and then direct work on the problems.

A small facility tour may be interesting for Peter, Alexander amd Georg (unless its on friday).

2) approval of the minutes 2025-06-25
=====================================

Minutes are approved.


3) chair for SECoP committee
============================

Markus Zolliker steps down from the position of chair of the SECoP committee.
Everybody thanks him for the his work in the past 9.5 years.
Markus will continue his work in the commitee.

A new chair needs to be elected.
After a short discussion, Georg Brandl is elected as the new chair.
Klaus Kiefer will report this change to the ISSE.

Georg is going to apply as a personal ISSE member through MLZ.


4) state of pending issues
==========================


Acquisition RFC PR (GB)
-----------------------

Accepted in general, but needs some work - Georg will work on it.


Visibility specs (MZ)
---------------------

Pull request created and accepted. Will be merged.


Websocket RFC PR (GB)
---------------------

pull request for spec exists and may be merged. Any comments should be put there.




5) A.O.B.
=========

Prefixes/Postfixes
------------------

Triggered by a question from ILL about naming schemes, a discussion about renaming of `target_limits` to `target_min` and `target_max` started.
Further, adding '_min' / '_max' to any parameter to make its limits dynamic/changeable, was discussed and agreed upon.

Markus stated, that we already discussed and agreed upon this, but it's not yet in the spec.
A pull request is to be made for this change.

other discussions
-----------------

Discussion about making it easier for others to implement SECoP.
Status Quo of SECoP integration in different facilities and how to improve.
(automatic SECoP->tango bridge?)

Klaus reports about two proposals which are in-flight.

An initiative within LENS raised the topic of integrating potentiostats, where SECoP may be helpful, triggering an
experience exchange about integration of potentiostats (especially 'Biologic',
which seems to have gotten an API recently).



6) date of next video meeting
=============================

Will be done in person meeting.
