meeting 2025-09-17 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Georg Brandl
     * Peter Braun
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Zeus Castillo
     * Eddy Lelièvre-Berna

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3

1) presentation of PLC implementation @ILL
==========================================

Zeus Castillo presents his implemention of SECoP @ ILL.
He created an open source Codesys library to be re-used by others.
Several interesting implementation details are presented.
Also, a live demo was shown and its details were explained.
Operation via a simple text client and via the frappy-client worked flawlessly.

Several questions by Georg and Klaus got answered.
Especially, the way the descriptive data is created raised some questions.

Zeus explained that the format of the configuration file is preliminary and
that the config file for his code generator just look very similiar to the
descriptive data, as it was used as a strating point.

Georg asks about some details of JSON parsing/generation.
Zeus explained his solution.

Eddy, unfortunately, has to leave.

Alexander queries Zeus about how easy to find and understandable the current SECoP specification
was for him. Zeus reported, that it was easy to find and (after reading it several times)
also easy to understand. Also, he contacted Markus about unclear things, which were quickly resolved.
The only difficult part was the example of the 'check' message, as this was the only occurence of a triple-valued device.

Georg queries about whether everything is run within the same task and which cycle times are possible.
Zeus reported the current solution to be singletask, but it may be split into multiple tasks
with distinct priorities so that SECoP communications doesn't block higher priority tasks.
cycle times around 20ms to 50ms are currently used and work fine.

Klaus wonders about how the handshaking define in the SECoP spec is implemented.
Zeus shows and explains several implementation details, answering this question as well.

Enno wonders about why the implementation on a PLC was choosen.
A small discussion, including fear of having to update, essentially ends with the coclusion
that there are some subtle differences between facilities which faviour one, or the other solution.


2) approval of previous minutes (2025-10-14/15)
===============================================

approved.


3) discussion process on github
===============================

XXX: may need to rephrase the topic of this section

Georg points out, that while on https://www.github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP ,
just 'click' on the 'eye' and select 'all-notifications'.

Georg proposes to communicate the possibility to comment on recent activities on the SECoP spec
via the ISSE newsletter or website.

Georg presents his work on splitting several pages of the current specification
into multiple smaller sections.
E.g. There are now individual pages per message and an index.
A section showing the differences between distinct versions aof the specification is also included.

The presentation is welcome, the work is greatly appreciated.

Zeus points out that, while this new way to structure the pages is much easier to find
relevant information, more examples e.g. when to use which errorclass may further improve
the usefulness of the specification.

Klaus points out that we have, by now, mor then 3 defined interface_classes.
There is the Communicator and the Acquisition classes.

Agreement to activate this version of the specification.

Zeus leaves.


4) Acquisition RFC
==================

Georg shows the current state.
Markus proposes to just merge this now.
Agreement on merging this.


5) YAML (RFC 2/3) and Systems (RFC 4)
=====================================

Georg points out that due to the restructuring of the specifiaction,
some parts of the actual pull-request may not work anymore and need rework.

Markus thinks we don't need to hurry, but it should be done soon.
klaus points out, that next april the specification has its 10(th) birthday, so
it would be nice to be finished with this until then.

Georg and Markus discuss details within RFC002 about checking the validity of the
ParameterPostfixes.

Georg will rework the relevant pieces of the specification to add the systems and yaml files.


6) revisiting old issues
========================

Issue 066 force re-connect
--------------------------

seems to have been forgotten to include in the spec.
Agreement to move to the spec.


Issue 67 pid control parameter
------------------------------

Issue got stuck, as there was no agreement.
Klaus points out that this need to be reconsiderated when we write a system for a temperature controller.

Agreement to leave it as is and solve the issue when writing the systems.


Issue 69 optional structs by default
------------------------------------

A discussion about the usefulness of optional parts of a struct starts.
The changed reply, however, should always include all struct members.

It turns out, that optional struct members are part of the spec already,
just that the issue would introduce a breaking change.

Consensus seems to leave this at the current state and close the Issue.
An example seems to be missing in the spec.


Issue 077 prefixes
------------------

It was already agreed (2023-01-16) that we use postfixes instead of prefixes.
Peter is going to write a pull-request.

Agreed postfixes are '_enabled', '_min', '_max', and '_limits'.


Issue 078 Interacting modules (use case power supplies)
-------------------------------------------------------

Markus proposes to treat it as a system.


- Markus would leave it out of 2.0
- Georg says it would be good to have at least one system as an example for 2.0
- Klaus agrees, but mentions it does not have to be in the spec for 2.0 at first

Klaus and Ennno have to leave.

Converting Issues to RFC's
--------------------------

Georg proposes to convert at least some issues to RFC format. Alexander suggests keeping the issue namespace separate, RFC-9xx may be confusing.
Proposal from Markus and Georg: issues should keep their numbers, renumber the existing RFCs to 101 to 108 and continue from there.

A.o.B.
======

Klaus gives some information about the ISSE meeting:

Possible dates for the committee meeting will be:

- 28.11.2025
- 01.12.2025

Klaus would like a meeting before that.

Date of next Meeting
====================

There will be a short meeting on 26.11.2025 at 09:00 (alternative: 25.11.2025 09:00). Clarify with Enno.

..
    -- closed at 15:43  --

