meeting 2025-06-25 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Georg Brandl
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Niklas Ekstr√∂m
     * Bastian Klemke

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3

1) approval of the minutes 2025-05-07
=====================================

Markus has exchanged the "group property" by "'aquisition_modules' property".
Otherwise approved.

2) Acquisition RFC
==================

Georg has updated the Acquisition RFC after last meeting.
It is approved, Georg will prepare a PR for updating the spec.

3) Visibility change in spec
============================

Some details were found, to be corrected by Markus,
the PR can then be merged next time.

4) Websocket RFC
================

The RFC is approved (implementation is already present in Frappy
and used at PSI), Georg will prepare a PR for updating the spec.

5) In person meeting
====================

Possible topics:

- Machine readable spec definition (GB)
- Low-level introduction: how to get new people on board (KK)
- Finalize web page: tutorials/software/new users sections (KK)
- Create a SECoP "newsletter"? Need to make users aware of new features
  since ISSE is not too active right now (KK)

Timeline: maybe October, Markus sends noodle
Duration: probably 2 full days
Location: probably Lund, Niklas asks

6) A.O.B.
=========

KK: wrote proposal to HMC for working out missing parts in NeXuS and bringing
to NIAC, taking ideas from SECoP@HMC, submitted, good chance for funding
(lots of support by lots of institutions)

KK: proposal upcoming for InfraTec (LEAPS applies), standardization
approach for electrochemical cells, one task is for integration of
controls at beamline

7) Date of next meeting
=======================

After summer break: 17th of September 2025, 09:00 via Zoom.
