meeting 2025-05-07 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Markus Zolliker
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Georg Brandl
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Peter Braun
     * Bastian Klemke

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1) approval of the minutes 2025-03-05
=====================================
approved.


2) Acquisition Proposal
=======================

Markus added the property 'acquisition modules' to the proposal:

https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/4c3e7e933cf9e1dd941487499e1ef4a60d60ccb0/rfcs/RFC-006-acquisition.rst#acquisitioncontroller-no-base-interface

Klaus wants a better wording of the description to highlight the difference to a Readable.
A discussion about the 'aquisition_modules' property and whether its mandatory or optional follows.
Nobody rejects the idea that the 'aquisition_modules' property is not mandatory if the acquisition ist a single module only.
Similar for the 'goal': if an acquisition has no sensible/adjustable 'goal' parameter, it may be left out.
Better wording seems also needed for the description of the matrix datainfo/datatype.

next step is to update the pull request to make it part of the specification.

A discussion about 'Acquisition' starts.
Markus presents a case, where one would start with a acquisition system with a single channel,
so you can implement a single 'Acquisition' module. If later on, additional channels need to be added,
can the original 'Acquisition' stay, or is it needed to be split into an 'AcquisitionControl' and an
'AcquisitionChannel'. Markus would allow this.
Enno dislikes it, as it makes things untidy and confusing.
Allowing an 'Acquisition' module *only* if there is a single channel, which can then leave out the 'aquisition_modules' property,
seems much cleaner. Even a single-channel Acquisition system can still be implemented as Controller + channel,
making it easier to extend it later.

It is then discussed, what to put into the interface_class entry.
An intermediate result seems to have an interface_class 'Acquisition' and two features 'AcquisitionChannel' and
'AcquisitionController'.
Georg dislikes this, as it is untidy. He proposes to instead use three distinct interface_classes
'Acquisition', 'AcquisitionController', 'AcquisitionChannel'.
Klaus seems to be happy with this.

Georg will rework the pull request.

Another point discussed is the 'progress' parameter.
Peter points out, that this can be optional or be defined via a Feature.

Klaus ponders about the mapping of AcqisitionChannels/Controllers parameters to ECS devices/modules/parameters.
This seems to be done with the property Markus added.


3) Visibility
=============

Markus moved the missing new visibility specification from the previous secop_specification_draft_wip.rst to the split specification.
Everybody was invited to check for correctness.

* https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/6e37621a9fdf456ee77e742121f4bdaf145e086e/protocol/specification/descriptive.rst#optional-module-properties
* https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/blob/6e37621a9fdf456ee77e742121f4bdaf145e086e/protocol/specification/descriptive.rst#optional-accessible-properties

The discussion starts with an example of a readonly parameter with visibility 'w', i.e. an indication to the
ECS that the parameter may be shown as a changeable parameter. This can happen, if the parameter visibility was inherited.
It seems a clear case of an misconfiguration, but it is not supposed to make real trouble,
as readonly is enforced and the visibility is just an indication.

A slight rewording seem to fix this nicely.

A similar case happens for commands, where a visibility of 'w' seems to be sensible to chow the command to the user.

The case of visibility '---' is discussed. For Klaus and Enno it totally makes sense to have such a visibility
for parameters which are internal/debug parameters which are not supposed to show to any user, but still have it
accessible via SECoP.


4) websocket RFC pull request
=============================

No objections, can be merged.


5) other issues
===============

Klaus informs about selected project calls.
The Oscars project call didn't match.
Another HMC proposal is going to be submitted end of May by Peter and Klaus.
Klaus queries, who wants to participate either as member or as observer.
Topic is roughly speaking networking people to get a proposal to NIAC (and to get it accepted)
about storing the SECoP metadata in Nexus.


6) Stop() on Mass flow controllers
==================================

Peter displays the case of a mass flow controller with the desired mass flow as target/value.
If then a stop() is issued, the specification suggests to set the target to the actual value.
The more sensible behaviour seems to stop the mass flow, i.e. setting the target to zero.
Enno thinks there is no problem in doing that, the specification may need some better wording.
Nobody rejects the idea of setting the target to zero in this case.

Some further ideas are pondered upon. Essentially, a custom command is suggested.
Several headache inducing views on the problem are discussed.


7) Date of next video meeting
=============================

25(th) of June, 13:30 via zoom.
