meeting 2026-01-29 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Georg Brandl
     * Peter Braun
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Markus Zolliker

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1) approval of the minutes 2025-12-02
=====================================

They were not sent around, they are available here:
https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/pull/47.

Will be approved next time.


2) In-person meeting for 10 year celebration - scheduling
=========================================================

There were only two responses to the terminplaner poll.

Klaus proposes also extending it to later dates, so that we can also invite the
extended community, e.g. ILL, ISIS and HZDR.

April will likely be too late, it should be extended to May and June. A
tentative date would be 08.06. and 09.06. since everyone present at the meeting
would be available.

Georg will send around an updated poll.

3) ISSE board meeting preparation
=================================

The meetings will be sometime in February. The concrete dates are currently not
known to the present attendees. There will be a one-hour slot for the SECoP
committee. It's split between a presentation and some discussion.

SECoP 2.0 should be presented, as well as the supplementary tools we made and
the currently ongoing work. The presentation should be split between us, with a
maximum of half an hour.

Topics, presenters and timeframe for the presentation are discussed.

Everyone should prepare slides, the division of the talk will be discussed once
the slides are done. Due to shorness of time, everything should be in the
slides, no demos etc.

Final list of Topics:
- SECoP version 2.0 (Georg)
- Website+Spin (Alexander)
- Frappy (Markus)
- Octopy (Niklas is not available, will send a slide)
- SHALL+SECoP-ophid+webclient (peter)
- Operando4Nexus, outreach etc. (Klaus)

Peter and Klaus will collect the slides. These should be ready around the 11th
to have time to iterate.

Klaus gives the proposed date and time of the ISSE meetings.
12 February 2026
13.00 - 14:00: Helium Stewardship
14.00 - 15.00: Sample Environment Database

16 February 2026
13.00 - 14:00: Sample Environment Communication Protocol
Optional: 14.00 – 15.00: Soft Matter Sample Environment Equipment

Should the committe meeting not happen, we will have a meeting dedicated to the
website content (especially the easy-access topic) at that time (16.02. 13:00).

4) Changes to finalize 2.0 spec
===============================

Feedback for `PR 44 <https://github.com/SampleEnvironment/SECoP/pull/44/>`_ is
needed to proceed. Everyone should have a look at it.

There is currently no system defined.

Klaus and Peter discuss converting the temperature controller or power supply
to the new system format.

The question about the locaion of the yaml schemata is not yet finally decided.
Currently they are in PR 44 and in the secop-check repo.

5) AoB
======

PIDs for setups/nodes
---------------------

Peter and Klaus had a discussion about assigning PIDs to equipment within
ROCK-IT. The option to cite a setup (tag from git repo for the configuration
and code for example) seems useful, there currently is no "node meaning" due to
proxying concerns. We have to consider how to support this, whether a node
property is enough or not.

PR 43
-----

PR 44 has a boolean for `_enabled` in the schema, 43 still has an enum with
On/Off as values. Everyone agrees to use a boolean.

An entry in the changelog would be good to have, Peter will add it into PR 43
or into another change.

6) Date of next video meeting
=============================

06.03.2026 09:00
