meeting 2026-05-12 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Georg Brandl
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Markus Zolliker
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Bastian Klemke

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1) Approval of minutes
======================

Minutes of previous meeting accepted.


2) In person meeting on June 22-23 - preparation
================================================

Markus wont be able to make it.
Everybody else seems able to join.

Klaus suggests a restaurant, the Creperie Potsdam, which is accepted.
The meeting room will be a little smaller.
Arrival on Monday should be before 13:00, because the canteen closes at 13:30.
A hotel in Potsdam is recommended for easiest shuttle transfer.
The program of the second day is planned until 12:30.
Georg will circulate the program, once its compiled.

Important: Klaus will need the list of attendees until end of May.


3) SECoP 2.0 outstanding issues
===============================

Georg presents the current state of the issues on github.
As it would be favourable to merge the issues before the next meeting, please,
everybody has a look on especially the systems-issues (RFCs 102, 103, 104).

Markus dislikes the HasOffset feature in its current form.
He understands SECoP values as abstracted values to be used as is and not to be corrected
after transmission via SECoP.
Enno also likes the correct values to be transferred and ponders if it is actually
useful to have a ECS-changeable offset.
Markus points out, that several SE equipment SEC-nodes at PSI include a rotational stage,
whose offset is expected to be changeable by the ECS.
Klaus points out, that using the corrected value in SEcP messages seems a good idea,
but it should be stated how the limits need to be transformed then.
As there seems to be no solution at hand, Markus proposes to keep the feature as a draft until
a finally accepted solution is obtained. Nobody objects.
Markus proposes to use the same convention for the sign of the offset like in nicos.


4) ISSE board meeting todos
===========================

24(th) and 25(th) of June.
Georg and Klaus discuss the agenda points relevant to the SECoP session on the 24(th).
Klaus explains the concept behind the Sample Environment (Equipment) database
for the session on the 25(th).


5) AoB
======

Klaus proposes the have a short sync 2 weeks before the in-persona meeting.


6) next meeting
===============

22(nd) and 23(rd) of June in persona @HZB
