Minutes 23.06.2026
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Georg Brandl
     * Peter Braun
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Markus Zolliker

1) Work session
===============

Re-checking some of the slides
------------------------------

Georg updated the slides in the evening, we go through them again.
There are some minor comments.

The question of when to publish 2.0 is raised.
Georg mentions that the small changes to the yaml definition discussed yesterday will have to be included. Otherwise it's ready.

SECoP could be released on Thursday, 25th of June 2026.

Enno has concerns about the optionality in systems wrt a combinatorial explosion if too much is optional.
Markus wants to know if there is already someone in the core group using it.
Klaus says they are with their sample changer for example.

Peter would like to include an option to have a list of modules in systems (0-infty).
There are no objections to include a simple variant without max/min/further rules.

Next time, we will have a discussion to try to go from the minimum to the point where we all agree what should be in a system to see and build the first v0 to put in the repo for first use and further discussion. (SampleChanger, cryo, powersupply).

It should be stressed in the ISSE committee meeting that now is the time to contribute.

Work on tutorials, outreach, structure of documentation
-------------------------------------------------------

Peter made a PR for including guides for handshake, coupled modules, check
message, and meaning.

The SECoP Octopy guide will be filled with a stub to contact Nicklas.
Frappy guide needs the addition of the medium complexity example.

There will be a small reordering with the implementation list and the "getting started section"

AI MCP with SECoP?
------------------

Nicklas brings up the topic of MCP, an interface for LLMs to use some APIs.
There is some general interest.

We'll keep it in mind for Thursday if someone asks about AI integration.

AoB
---

There will be a list of next projects.

Klaus will ask Eddy for a slide about the ILL PLC implementation.

A more fun discussion in the end is about visibility, stickers and "SECoP inside" logos.

There could/should be a discussion+session at the ISSE meeting in September. Klaus will be there.

Closing
-------

Georg thanks everyone for the lively and productive meeting.

Thanks Klaus, Bastian and Peter for hosting!
