meeting 2026-07-07 (ZOOM)
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

.. sidebar:: participants

     * Georg Brandl
     * Peter Braun
     * Niklas Ekström
     * Enrico Faulhaber
     * Klaus Kiefer
     * Bastian Klemke
     * Alexander Zaft
     * Markus Zolliker

.. contents:: Agenda
    :local:
    :depth: 3


1) Approval of minutes
======================

The minutes from the Berlin in-person meeting are on GitHub as a pull request
(#53). Put any comments there and then they will be merged. (Conditionally
approved)

2) Feedback from ISSE Meetings
==============================

As of yet there was not much resonance after the ISSE Talks. Klaus had a small
discussion in the context of another meeting.

Extending the core group with other centres is discussed.

Unrelated note: the need for a mailing list came up again.


ISSE Conference September
-------------------------

Klaus mentions the need for a contribution for the ISSE Conference in
September. Since only Klaus plans to go but also for him there may be
scheduling difficulties, it will be difficult to have an in-person
contribution.

Georg would be happy to give a remote talk for 2.0 updates/"News on SECoP".

3) Next Steps for 2.0
=====================

Checker
-------

Georg presents the newest state of the SECoP-checker.

He extended for systems checking, the web version is now also more usable and
nicer.

Loading non-core definitions is still missing.


4) AoB
======

-

5) Next regular Meeting Date
============================

25th of August, 09:00
